A ray of light shines down on a leather-bound storybook. The book opens and a voice begins reading its text:

SHREK: Once upon a time there was a lovely princess. But she had an enchantment upon her of a fearful sort which could only be broken by love's first kiss. She was locked away in a castle guarded by a terrible fire-breathing dragon. Many brave knights had attempted to free her from this dreadful prison, but none prevailed. She waited in the dragon's keep in the highest room of the tallest tower. For her true love and true love's first kiss.

The voice laughs. A big, green hand rips out a page of the book and shuts it closed.

SHREK: Like that's ever gonna happen. What a load of -

We see an outhouse and hear the sound of a toilet flushing. Out steps SHREK, an ogre, who tugs at his underwear and shakes his foot of the page still stuck to his shoe. He looks lovingly at the swamp he calls home, and goes about his daily routine. This includes taking a mud shower, brushing his teeth with bugs, bathing in a muddy pond, gathering giant slugs for dinner, and painting a warning sign.

In a nearby village, an angry mob gather up to go after Shrek. At night they gather their torches and pitchforks and enter the swamp, trampling over Shrek's warning signs. Shrek sees them after investigating the commotion, rolling his eyes. The villagers stop outside Shrek's home, unaware that Shrek is sneaking up behind them.

NIGHT - NEAR SHREK'S HOME

Villager 1: Think it's in there?

Villager 2: All right. Let's get it!

Villager 1: Whoa. Hold on. Do you know what that thing can do to you?

Villager 3: Yeah, it'll grind your bones for its bread.

Shrek chuckles, revealing himself to be standing behind the mob.

SHREK: Yes, well, actually, that would be a giant.

The mob gasp.

SHREK: Now, ogres, oh they're much worse. They'll make a suit from your freshly peeled skin...

Shrek slowly approaches as the villagers back away in fear.

Villagers: No!

SHREK: They'll shave your liver. Squeeze the jelly from your eyes! Actually, it's quite good on toast.

Villager 1: Back! Back, beast! Back! I warn ya!

The villager waves his torch in Shrek's face. Shrek casually licks his fingers and pinches the flame, extinguishing the torch. The villager drops it.

Villager 1: Right...

Shrek terrifies the mob with a great frightening roar, his spit extinguishing all the remaining torches. He wipes his mouth and waits for the villagers to stop screaming.

SHREK: (Whispering) This is the part where you run away.

All: (Screaming!!!)

Shrek laughs as the men drop their torches and pitchforks and run away as fast they can.

SHREK: And stay out! (

He looks down and picks up a wanted poster dropped by one of the villagers. He reads it aloud.

SHREK: "Wanted. Fairytale creatures"?

He sighs and walks off. dropping the poster to the ground.

THE NEXT DAY - FOREST

Fairy tale creatures are put in chains and led into wagons by Duloc Guards. The Captain of the Duloc Guards sits at a table paying a line of people their rewards for turning in the fairytale creatures. Those waiting in line include Peter Pan, who is carrying Tinkerbell in a cage, Geppetto who is carrying Pinocchio, and a farmer carrying the Three Little Pigs.

GUARD: All right. This one's full. Take it away! Move it along. Come on! Get up!

THE CAPTAIN: Next!

GUARD: (Taking the witch's broom) Give me that! Your flying days are over. (breaks the broom in half)

THE CAPTAIN: That's 20 pieces of silver for the witch. Next!

The captain hands over the reward to the villager who turned the witch in. The villager mutters to himself.

Villager: Lousy twenty pieces...

GUARD: Get up! Come on!

Waiting in line is Donkey on a leash and his owner. He looks in horror at the witch and a group of dwarves being loaded into a wagon.

GUARD: Sit down there! Be quiet!

Mama Bear and Papa Bear are locked inside giant cages, with Little Bear in his own cage.

LITTLE BEAR: (crying) This cage is too small.

DONKEY: (To his owner) Please, don't turn me in. I'll never be stubborn again. I can change. Please! Give me another chance!

OLD WOMAN: Oh, shut up. (Smacks Donkey)

DONKEY: Oh!

THE CAPTAIN: Next! What have you got?

GEPPETTO: This little wooden puppet.

PINOCCHIO: I'm not a puppet. I'm a real boy. (his nose grows)

THE CAPTAIN: Five shillings for the possessed toy. Take it away.

PINOCCHIO: Father, please! Don't let them do this! Help me!

Geppetto takes the money and walks off. The old woman steps up to the table.

THE CAPTAIN: Next! What have you got?

OLD WOMAN: Well, I've got a talking donkey.

THE CAPTAIN: Right. Well, that's good for ten shillings, if you can prove it.

OLD WOMAN: Oh, go ahead, little fella. (Donkey stays silent).

THE CAPTAIN: Well?..

OLD WOMAN: Oh, oh, he's just...he's just a little nervous. He's really quite a chatterbox. (Smacks Donkey again) Talk, you boneheaded dolt, talk!

THE CAPTAIN: That's it. I've heard enough. Guards!

OLD WOMAN: No, no, he talks! He does. (Moving Donkey's lips) I can talk. I love to talk. I'm the talking-est damn thing you ever saw.

THE CAPTAIN: Get her out of my sight.

OLD WOMAN: No, no! I swear! Oh! He can talk!

The guards grab the old woman and she struggles with them. One of her legs flies out and kicks Tinkerbell out of Peter Pan's hands, and her cage drops on Donkey's head. He gets sprinkled with fairy dust and starts floating upwards.

DONKEY: Hey! I can fly!

PETER PAN: He can fly!

THREE LITTLE PIGS: He can fly!

THE CAPTAIN: He can talk?!

DONKEY: Ha, ha! That's right, fool! Now I'm a flying, talking donkey. You might have seen a housefly, maybe even a superfly but I bet you ain't never seen a donkey fly. Ha, ha! (The pixie dust's effects begin to wear off) Uh-oh. (He drops out of the air and hits the ground with a thud.)

THE CAPTAIN: Seize him!

Donkey dodges the guards as they try to grab him and runs deeper into the forest.

GUARDS: He's getting away! Get him! This way! Turn!

Donkey escapes deeper into the forest and runs head first into Shrek's backside. Shrek turns around to see who bumped into him and glares down at Donkey. Donkey looks scared of Shrek for a moment, but he quickly hides behind him after seeing that the guards have caught up to him.

THE CAPTAIN: You there. Ogre!

SHREK: Aye?

THE CAPTAIN: By the order of Lord Farquaad, I am authorized to place you both under arrest and...(Shrek slowly approaches the group of guards, the guards visibly frightened by him) transport you to... a designated...resettlement...facility?

SHREK: Oh, really? You and what army? (Smiles)

The Captain looks behind himself and sees that all the other guards have abandoned him. The Captain tucks tail and runs off. Shrek shakes his head and starts walking back to his swamp. Donkey, impressed by Shrek, follows him.

DONKEY: Can I say something to you? Listen, you was really, really, really somethin' back here. Incredible!

SHREK: Are you talkin' to...(he turns around and Donkey is gone) me? (he turns back around and Donkey is right in front of him.) Whoa!

DONKEY: Yes. I was talkin' to you. Can I tell you that you that you was great back there? Man those guards! They thought they was all of that. Then you showed up and bam! They was trippin' over themselves like babes in the woods. That really made me feel good to see that.

SHREK: (Annoyed) Oh, that's great. Really.

DONKEY: Man, it's good to be free.

SHREK: Now, why don't you go celebrate your freedom with your own friends? Hmm?

DONKEY: But, uh, I don't have any friends. And I'm not goin' out there by myself. Hey, wait a minute! I got a great idea! I'll stick with you. You're a mean, green, fightin' machine. Together we'll scare the spit out of anybody that crosses us.

Shrek turns and regards Donkey for a moment before loudly roaring in is face.

DONKEY: Oh, wow! That was really scary. If you don't mind me sayin', if that don't work, your breath certainly will get the job done, 'cause you definitely need some Tic Tacs or something, 'cause your breath stinks!

Shrek walks off. Donkey reappears ahead of him, dangling from a felled log.

DONKEY: Man, you almost burned the hair outta my nose, just like the time...(Shrek covers his mouth but Donkey continues to talk, so Shrek removes his hand.) ...then I ate some rotten berries. I had strong gases leaking out of my butt that day.

SHREK: Why are you following me?

DONKEY: I'll tell you why. (Drops from the log. Singing) "'Cause I'm all alone, There's no one here beside me, My problems have all gone, There's no one to deride me, But you gotta have friends..."

SHREK: Stop singing! (Picks up Donkey by his ears and tail) It's no wonder you don't have any friends (drops him).

DONKEY: Wow. Only a true friend would be that truly honest.

SHREK: Listen, little donkey. Take a look at me. What am I?

DONKEY: (looks all the way up at Shrek) Uh...really tall?

SHREK: No! I'm an ogre! You know, "Grab your torch and pitchforks." Doesn't that bother you?

DONKEY: (Shakes his head) Nope.

SHREK: (Surprised) Really?

DONKEY: Really, really.

SHREK: Oh.

DONKEY: Man, I like you. What's your name?

SHREK: Uh, Shrek.

DONKEY: Shrek? Well, you know what I like about you, Shrek? You got that kind of "I-don't-care-what-nobody-thinks-of-me" thing. I like that. I respect that, Shrek. You're all right. (They come over a hill overlooking Shrek's home.) Woo, look at that! Who'd want to live in place like that?

SHREK: (Annoyed) That would be my home.

DONKEY: Oh! And it is lovely! Just beautiful. You know you are quite a decorator. It's amazing what you've done with such a modest budget. I like that boulder. That is a nice boulder. (Looks at Shrek's "keep out" signs) I guess you don't entertain much, do you?

SHREK: I like my privacy.

DONKEY: You know, I do too. That's another thing we have in common. Like I hate it when you got somebody in your face. You're trying to give them a hint and they won't leave. And there's that big awkward silence you know? (awkward silence) Can I stay with you?

SHREK: Uh, what?

DONKEY: Can I stay with you, please?

SHREK: (sarcastically) Of course!

DONKEY: Really?

SHREK: No.

DONKEY: Please! I don't wanna go back there! You don't know what it's like to be considered a freak. (Donkey pushes Shrek up against the door) Well, maybe you do. But that's why we gotta stick together. You gotta let me stay! Please! Please!

SHREK: Okay! Okay! But one night only.

DONKEY: Ah! Thank you! (he runs inside the hut)

SHREK: Ah! What are you...no! (Donkey hops up onto a chair.) No!

DONKEY: This is gonna be fun! We can stay up late, swappin' manly stories, and in the mornin'... I'm makin' waffles.

SHREK: (Groans in frustration)

DONKEY: Where do, uh, I sleep?

SHREK: (irritated) Outside!

DONKEY: Oh, well, I guess that's cool. I mean, I don't know you, and you don't know me, so I guess outside is best, you know. Here I go. Good night. (Shrek slams the door, shutting Donkey outside) I mean, I do like the outdoors. I'm a donkey. I was born outside. I'll just be sitting by myself outside, I guess, you know. By myself, outside. I'm all alone...there's no one here beside me...

SHREK'S HOME - NIGHT

Shrek is getting ready for dinner. He sits down, lights a candle made out of his own earwax, and begins eating. Donkey looks inside from a window, and then lays down by the front door. Shrek is about to take a bite when he hears a creaking noise. He stands up with a huff.

SHREK: (to Donkey) I thought I told you to stay outside!

DONKEY: (from the window) I am outside!

Shrek hears a noise from inside and turns to find the source. He sees several shadows moving and looks around. He sees the Three Blind Mice on his table.

MOUSE 1: Well, gents, it's a far cry from the farm, but what choice do we have?

MOUSE 2: It's not home, but it'll do just fine.

GORDER: (bouncing on a slug) What a lovely bed.

SHREK Got ya. (Grabs Gorder, but he escapes and lands on his shoulder.)

GORDER: I found some cheese. (bites into Shrek's ear)

SHREK: Ow! (tries to grab him)

GORDER: Blah! Awful stuff. (jumps down to the table)

BLIND MOUSE: Is that you, Gorder?

GORDER: How did you know?

SHREK: Enough! (he grabs all three mice) What are you doing in my house? (He gets bumped from behind and he drops the mice.) Hey!

Shrek turns around and sees that the Seven Dwarves have put Snow White, sleeping in her glass coffin, on the table.

SHREK: Oh, no, no, no. Dead broad off the table! (pushes the coffin away)

DWARF: Where are we supposed to put her? The bed's taken.

SHREK: Huh?

Shrek marches over to the bedroom and throws back the curtain. The Big Bad Wolf is laying in the bed.

BIG BAD WOLF: What?

Shrek now has the Big Bad Wolf by the collar and is dragging him to the front door.

SHREK: I live in a swamp. I put up signs. I'm a terrifying ogre! What do I have to do get a little privacy?

He opens the front door and throws the Wolf out. He sees that a horde of fairytale creatures have set up camp in his swamp.

SHREK: Oh, no. No! No! (He dodges out the way of a group of witches flying on broomsticks)

The Three Bears (minus Mama Bear) sit around the fire, the Pied Piper is playing his pipe and the rats are all running to him, some elves are directing flight traffic so that the fairies and witches can land...etc.

SHREK: What are you doing in my swamp?!!

Shrek's voice echoes throughout the camp and everyone falls silent. Gasps are heard all around. The Three Good Fairies hide inside a tent.

SHREK: All right, get out of here. All of you, move it! Come on! Let's go! Hapaya! Hapaya! Hey!

DWARVES: Hey! Quickly. Come on!

More dwarves run inside the house and shut the door behind them.

SHREK: No, no! No, no. Not there! Not there!

Shrek fiddles with the door handle, unable to open it. He gives Donkey an annoyed look.

DONKEY: Hey, don't look at me. I didn't invite them.

PINOCCHIO: Well gosh, no one invited us.

SHREK: What?!

PINOCCHIO: We were forced to come here!

SHREK: By who?!

LITTLE PIG: Lord Farquaad. He huffed and he puffed and he...signed an eviction notice.

SHREK: (Sighs) Alright. Who knows where this... "Farquaad" guy is?

The crowd gasps at the mention of Lord Farquaad. No one answers.

DONKEY: Oh, I do. I know where he is!

SHREK: Does anyone else know where to find him?

Baby Bear raises his hand but Papa Bear quickly lowers his hand down. The Big Bad Wolf and a wizard point at each other.

SHREK: Anyone at all?

DONKEY: Me! Me!

SHREK: Anyone?

DONKEY: (Jumping up and down) Oh! Oh, pick me! Oh, I know! I know! Me, me!

SHREK: (sigh) Okay, fine. Attention all...fairy tale things. Do not get comfortable! Your welcome is officially worn out! In fact, I'm gonna see this guy Farquaad right now and get you all off my land and back where you came from!

After a brief silence, the crowd erupts into cheering and applause. This was not Shrek's intention. A group of birds drapes a cloak made of flowers around Shrek's shoulders, much to his annoyance.

SHREK: Oh! (to Donkey) You! You're comin' with me.

Shrek brushes the cloak onto the floor, while the birds come back to place a wreath of flowers on Donkey's head. They make their through the crowd.

DONKEY: All right, that's what I like to hear, man. Shrek and Donkey, two stalwart friends, off on a whirlwind big-city adventure. I love it!

DONKEY: (singing) "On the road again...", sing it with me, Shrek!

As they walk away from the crowd Shrek grabs the torch from a dwarf cheering them on, who refuses to let go. Shrek shakes the torch until the dwarf falls into a pond.

DONKEY: "I can't wait to get on the road again."

SHREK: What did I say about singing? (yanks the wreath off Donkey's head)

DONKEY: Can I whistle?

SHREK: No.

DONKEY: Can I hum it?

SHREK: All right, hum it.

Donkey begins to hum 'On the Road Again'. The pair walk off into the night with Shrek's torch lighting the way.

DULOC - DUNGEON

A masked man is pouring a glass of milk. Another man is shown walking down the hallway towards a set of doors. As he is let into the room by two guards, we can see that the man is abnormally short. The masked man is dunking what looks to be a small person into the glass of milk.

FARQUAAD: (stepping forward) That's enough. He's ready to talk.

The Gingerbread Man is pulled out of the milk by Thelonious and is slammed down onto a cookie sheet. Farquaad manically laughs as he walks over to the table. When he reaches the table we see that he is too short to see above it. He clears his throat and the table is lowered.

FARQUAAD: (he picks up the Gingy's severed legs and plays with them) Run, run, run, as fast as you can. You can't catch me. I'm the gingerbread man!

GINGY: You're a monster!

FARQUAAD: I'm not the monster here, you are. (throws one leg at Gingy) You and the rest of that fairy tale trash, poisoning my perfect world (crumbles his other leg into dust). Now, tell me! Where are the others?!

GINGY: Eat me! (He spits milk into Farquaad's eye.)

FARQUAAD: I've tried to be fair to you creatures. Now my patience has reached its end! Tell me or I'll...(he grabs one of Gingy's gumdrop buttons)

GINGY: No, no, not the buttons. Not my gumdrop buttons!

FARQUAAD: All right then. Who's hiding them?

GINGY: Okay, I'll tell you. Do you know the muffin man?

FARQUAAD: The muffin man?

GINGERBREAD MAN: The muffin man.

FARQUAAD: Yes, I know the muffin man, who lives on Drury Lane?

GINGERBREAD MAN: Well, she's married to the muffin man.

FARQUAAD: (Shocked) The muffin man?

GINGERBREAD MAN: The muffin man!

FARQUAAD: She's married to the muffin man...

A door opens and the Captain of the Duloc Guards steps in.

CAPTAIN: My lord! We've found it.

FARQUAAD: Then what are you waiting for? Bring it in!

More guards enter carrying an object covered by a sheet. They mount it on the wall and the Captain removes the sheet. It is the Magic Mirror. Everyone stands in awe.

GINGERBREAD MAN: Ohhhh...

FARQUAAD: Magic mirror...

GINGERBREAD MAN: Don't tell him anything! (Farquaad smacks him off the table and a trash can. ) No!

FARQUAAD: Evening. Mirror, mirror on the wall, is this not the most perfect kingdom of them all?

MIRROR: Well, technically you're not a king.

FARQUAAD: Uh, Thelonius. (Thelonius holds up a hand mirror and smashes it with his fist.) You were saying?

MIRROR: What I mean is you're not a king yet. But you can become one. All you have to do is marry a princess.

FARQUAAD: Go on.

MIRROR: (chuckles nervously) So, just sit back and relax, my lord, because it's time for you to meet today's eligible bachelorettes. And...here they are!

Bouncy gameshow music begins to play. Using himself as a screen, the Magic Mirror reveals three shadowy portraits of princesses. Farquaad seems confused but watches on silently.

MIRROR: Bachelorette number one is a mentally abused shut-in from a kingdom far, far away. She likes sushi and hot tubbing anytime! Her hobbies include cooking and cleaning for her two evil sisters. Please welcome...Cinderella!

An image of Cinderella doing housework flips to a portrait of Cinderella in her ball gown putting on the glass slipper. Farquaad looks at her approvingly and the Captain claps.

MIRROR: Bachelorette number two is a cape-wearing girl from the land of fancy. Although she lives with seven other men, she's not easy.

An image of the Seven Dwarves flashes on the screen. The guards laugh at the Mirror's joke.

MIRROR: Just kiss her dead, frozen lips and find out what a live wire she is.! Come on, give it up for Snow White!

The mirror shows a portrait of Snow White in her slumber. Farquaad seems even more pleased, and everyone else claps this time.

MIRROR: And last, but certainly not last, bachelorette number three is a fiery redhead from a dragon-guarded castle surrounded by hot boiling lava!

The mirror shows an image of a giant dragon besides a tower and then of a giant castle surrounded by lava. A bright fire shines on the screen and Farquaad covers his eyes. This doesn't seem to deter his interest.

MIRROR: But don't let that cool you off. She's a loaded pistol who likes piña coladas and getting caught in the rain. Yours for the rescuing, Princess Fiona!

The mirror shows a portrait of Princess Fiona leaning on the window of her tower. Once again everyone else claps.

MIRROR: So, will it be: bachelorette number one, bachelorette number two, or bachelorette number three?

The mirrors flips through each princesses' portrait. The guards shout out different numbers while Farquaad frantically tries to decide.

GUARDS: Two! Two! Three! Three! Two! Two! Three!

FARQUAAD: (To himself) Two? Three? One? Three?

THELONIUS: Three! (holds up 2 fingers) Pick number three, my lord!

FARQUAAD: Okay, okay, uh... number three!

MIRROR: Lord Farquaad, you've chosen Princess Fiona.

Wild applause erupts from the guards. Farquaad is captivated by the portrait of Fiona.

FARQUAAD: Princess...Fiona...she's perfect. All I have to do is just find someone who can go...

MIRROR: But I probably should mention the little thing that happens at night.

Farquaad doesn't listen to the mirror at all, too busy formulating a plan.

FARQUAAD: I'll do it.

MIRROR: Yes, but after sunset...

FARQUAAD: Silence! I will make this Princess Fiona my queen, and Duloc will finally have the perfect king! Captain, assemble your finest men. We're going to have a tournament! (smiles evilly)

DULOC KINGDOM - EXTERIOR

Shrek and Donkey come out of the field just outside the Duloc parking lot.

DONKEY: But that's it. That's it right there. That's Duloc. I told ya I'd find it.

The two gaze up at Duloc Castle, a building that towers over the rest of the kingdom.

SHREK: So, that must be Lord Farquaad's castle.

DONKEY: Uh-huh. That's the place.

SHREK: Do you think maybe he's compensating for something?

Shrek laughs, but then groans as Donkey doesn't get the joke. He continues walking through the parking lot.

DONKEY: Hey, wait. Wait up, Shrek.

MAN: Hurry, darling. We're late. Hurry!

A man and woman run through the castle's entrance. In front of the gate is a series of ropes hung in a maze for crowd control. A mascot wearing a giant head resembling Farquaad stands at the end of the line. Shrek and Donkey exchange looks.

SHREK: Hey, you!

The mascot screams at the sight of Shrek and begins running through the roped path to get to the front gate.

SHREK: Wait a second. Look, I'm not gonna eat you. I just-- I just --

Shrek sighs in frustration and then begins pushing his way through the ropes. The mascot runs into a wall and knocks himself out. Shrek pushes through the entrance's turnstile, but Donkey gets caught in it and lands on the ground with a thud. Donkey sheepishly smiles and Shrek sighs in annoyance.

DULOC - INTERIOR

Shrek and Donkey look around the square, which is deserted. The trees and grass are neatly cut and the rows of houses all looked exactly the same. Chirpy music quietly plays from a set of loudspeakers.

SHREK: It's quiet. Too quiet. Where is everybody?

DONKEY: Hey, look at this!

Donkey runs over and pulls a lever that is attached to a box marked 'Information'. The music winds up and then the box doors open up. There are little wooden people inside and they begin to sing.

WOODEN PEOPLE: Welcome to Duloc such a perfect town / Here we have some rules let us lay them down / Don't make waves, stay in line and we'll get along fine / Duloc is perfect place / Please keep off of the grass / Shine your shoes, wipe your... face / Duloc is, Duloc is / Duloc is perfect place.

Suddenly a camera takes Donkey and Shrek's picture, both of which are dumbfounded.

DONKEY: Wow! Let's do that again!

Donkey makes ready to run over and pull the lever again but Shrek quickly grabs him by the tail.

SHREK: No. No. No, no, no!...No.

They hear a trumpet fanfare from afar and head over to investigate. A voice sounds from the distance.

FARQUAAD: Brave knights! You are the best and brightest in all the land, and today one of you shall prove himself better and brighter than all the rest.

As Shrek and Donkey walk down the tunnel to get into the arena, Donkey hums the Duloc theme song.

SHREK: All right, you're going the right way for a smacked bottom.

DONKEY: Sorry about that.

ARENA

In the center of a stadium-like arena, Duloc Knights are gathered as a large crowd of citizens watches on from the stands. Horses, kegs of beer, arrow targets, and other equipment are scattered about. Farquaad is atop a high up balcony, flanked by two guards, addressing the crowd. Shrek and Donkey step out onto the arena but don't seem to be noticed.

FARQUAAD: That champion shall have the honor-- no, no -- the privilege to go forth and rescue the lovely Princess Fiona from the fiery keep of the dragon. If for any reason the winner is unsuccessful, the first runner-up will take his place. And so on and so forth. Some of you may die, but it's a sacrifice I am willing to make.

The crowd cheers and applauds. Shrek looks around, noticing a man holding up a cue card up to the crowd that reads "APPLAUSE".

FARQUAAD: Let the tournament begin!

Shrek marches through the Duloc Knights, who back away in disgust upon noticing him.

FARQUAAD: Oh! What is that? It's hideous!

The crowd gasps and goes quiet.

SHREK: Ah, that's not very nice (Looks at Donkey and then back at Farquaad). It's just a donkey

Donkey looks confused, the joke is once again lost on him.

FARQUAAD: Indeed. Knights, new plan! The one who kills the ogre will be named champion! Have at him!

Farquaad points at Shrek. The Duloc Knights draw their weapons and slowly approach Shrek as he backs up, the crowd cheering them on.

CROWD: Get him!

SHREK: Oh, hey! Now come on! Hang on now. (He bumps into a table, noticing mugs of beer)

CROWD: Go ahead! Get him!

SHREK: (holds up a mug of beer) Can't we just settle this over a pint?

CROWD: Kill the beast!

SHREK: No? All right then. (drinks the mug in one gulp) Come on!

Shrek takes the mug and smashes the spigot off the large barrel of beer behind him. The beer comes rushing out, knocking the knights down and wetting the ground into mud. Shrek slides past the knights and uses a spear like a hockey stick to knock one of his feet. Donkey hops up onto one of the larger beer barrels. It breaks free of its ropes and begins to roll. Donkey manages to squish two knights into the mud and rolls over another group of knights running after Shrek. Shrek hops over a set of ropes that appears to make up a wrestling ring. Shrek uses the ropes to launch himself at two knights, knocking them over with his arms. The crowd boos. Shrek jump kicks a knight, and then body slams another. A knight comes from behind Shrek with his spear ready to attack. The crowd gasps, but before he can make a move Shrek puts him in a full-nelson hold.

DONKEY: Hey, Shrek, tag me! Tag me!

Shrek brings the knight over to Donkey, who leans on the ropes and headbutts the knight. Shrek gets up on the ropes and interacts with the crowd, who have now begun to cheer for Shrek and Donkey. Shrek stands on top of the ropes and beckons on the crowd's cheers.

SHREK: Yeah!

A knight tries to sneak up behind Shrek, but he turns in time to sees him and jumps on him.

WOMAN: The chair! Give him the chair!

Shrek uses a folding chair to smack the knight lying on the ground. Shrek dispatches a few more knights with ease. Shrek picks up the last knight, spinning him over his head and then throwing him against the post of the wrestling ring. Donkey kicks his helmet, and the ding sounds the end of the match. Finally all the knights are down. The audience goes wild.

SHREK: Oh, yeah! Ah! Ah! Thank you! Thank you very much! I'm here till Thursday. Try the veal! Ha, ha! (laughs)

Farquaad motions to the guards, who aim their crossbows at Shrek and Donkey. The crowd gasps and goes silent. Shrek stops laughing.

GUARD: Shall I give the order, sir?

FARQUAAD: No, I have a better idea. People of Duloc! I give you our champion!

The crowd cheers and a fanfare plays.

SHREK: What?

FARQUAAD: Congratulations, ogre. You've won the honor of embarking on a great and noble quest.

SHREK: Quest? I'm already on a quest. A quest to get my swamp back.

FARQUAAD: Your swamp?

SHREK: Yeah, my swamp! Where you dumped those fairy tale creatures!

FARQUAAD: Indeed. All right, ogre. I'll make you a deal. Go on this quest for me, and I'll give you your swamp back.

SHREK: Exactly the way it was?

FARQUAAD: Down to the last slime-covered toadstool.

SHREK: And the squatters?

FARQUAAD: As good as gone.

Shrek glances at the soldiers still aiming their crossbows and then turns back to Farquaad

SHREK: What kind of quest?

DULOC - EXTERIOR

Donkey and Shrek are now walking through the fields heading away from Duloc. Shrek is munching on an onion.

DONKEY: Let me get this straight. You're gonna go fight a dragon and rescue a princess just so Farquaad will give you back a swamp which you only don't have because he filled it full of freaks in the first place. Is that about right?

SHREK: You know, maybe there's a good reason donkeys shouldn't talk.

DONKEY: I don't get it. Why don't you just pull some of that ogre stuff on him? Throttle him, lay siege to his fortress, grinds his bones to make your bread, the whole ogre trip.

SHREK: Oh, I know what. Maybe I could have decapitated an entire village and put their heads on a pike, gotten a knife, cut open their spleen and drink their fluids. Does that sound good to you?

DONKEY: Uh, no, not really, no.

SHREK: For your information, there's a lot more to ogres than people think.

DONKEY: Example?

SHREK: Example? Okay, um, ogres are like onions. (he holds out his onion)

DONKEY: (sniffs the onion) They stink?

SHREK: Yes - - No!

DONKEY: They make you cry?

SHREK: No!

DONKEY: Oh, you leave them in the sun, they get all brown, start sproutin' little white hairs.

SHREK: No! Layers! Onions have layers. Ogres have layers! Onions have layers. You get it? We both have layers. (he throws away the onion and walks off)

DONKEY: (trailing after Shrek) Oh, you both have layers. Oh. {Sniffs} You know, not everybody likes onions. Cake! Everybody loves cakes! Cakes have layers.

SHREK: I don't care... what everyone likes. Ogres are not like cakes. (Walks passed Donkey)

DONKEY: You know what else everybody likes? Parfaits. Have you ever met a person, you say, "Let's get some parfait," they say, "Hell no, I don't like no parfait"? Parfaits are delicious.

SHREK: (Yelling) No! You dense, irritating, miniature beast of burden! Ogres are like onions! End of story. Bye-bye. See ya later.

DONKEY: Parfaits may be the most delicious thing on the whole damn planet.

SHREK: You know, I think I preferred your humming.

DONKEY: Do you have a tissue or something? I'm making a mess. Just the word parfait makes me start slobbering.

They head off. There is a montage of their journey. Walking through a field at sunset. Sleeping beneath a bright moon. Shrek burns his foot trying to stomp out the campfire, so Donkey pees on the fire to put it out. They arrive at the outskirts of a giant volcano and begin to make their way up.

DONKEY: (sniffs) Ohh! Shrek! Did you do that? You gotta warn somebody before you just crack one off. My mouth was open and everything.

SHREK: Believe me, Donkey, if it was me, you'd be dead. (sniffs) It's brimstone. We must be getting close.

DONKEY: Yeah, right, brimstone. Don't be talking about it's the brimstone. I know what I smell. It wasn't no brimstone. It didn't come off no stone neither.

They reach the top of the climb and hoist themselves up and over the ridge.

DRAGON'S KEEP - EXTERIOR

Shrek and Donkey gaze out into the crater. The Dragon's Keep towered before them, a dilapidated castle, burned and blackened. Perched on a rock pinnacle, it was surrounded by a terrifying lake of molten lava. A single light shines in the window of the tallest tower. Dark clouds block out the blue sky above them. Thunder strikes and crows circling the castle can be heard. Its all very ominous.

SHREK: Sure, it's big enough, but look at the location. (laughs)

Shrek jumps over and approaches the bridge, with Donkey joining in behind him.

DONKEY: (chuckes along nervously) Uh, Shrek? Uh, remember when you said that ogres have layers?

SHREK: Oh, aye.

DONKEY: Well, I have a bit of a confession to make (Gasps, seeing the skeleton of a horse). Donkeys don't have layers. We wear our fear right out there on our sleeves.

SHREK: Wait a second. Donkeys don't have sleeves.

DONKEY: You know what I mean.

SHREK: Oh you can't tell me you're afraid of heights.

DONKEY: No, I'm just a little uncomfortable about being on a rickety bridge over a boiling like of lava!

SHREK: Come on, Donkey. I'm right here beside ya, okay? For emotional support. We'll just tackle this thing together one little baby step at a time. DONKEY: Really?

SHREK: Really, really.

DONKEY: Okay, that makes me feel so much better.

SHREK: Just keep moving. And don't look down.

DONKEY: (Nervously to himself) Okay, don't look down. Don't look down. Don't look down. Keep on moving. Don't look down.

Donkey steps through a rotting board, which falls down into the fiery lava below

DONKEY: Shrek! I'm lookin' down! Oh, God, I can't do this! Just let me off, please!

SHREK: But you're already halfway.

DONKEY: But I know that half is safe!

SHREK: Okay, fine. I don't have time for this. You go back.

Shrek tries to press on while Donkey tries to make his way back under Shrek.

DONKEY: Shrek, no! Wait!

SHREK: Just, Donkey - - Let's have a dance then, shall me? (bounces and sways the bridge)

DONKEY: Don't do that!

SHREK: Oh, I'm sorry. Do what? Oh, this? (bounces the bridge again)

DONKEY: Yes, that!

SHREK: Yes? Yes, do it. Okay. (continues to bounce and sway as he backs Donkey across the bridge)

DONKEY: No, Shrek! No! Stop it!

SHREK: You said do it! I'm doin' it.

DONKEY: I'm gonna die. I'm gonna die. Shrek, I'm gonna die. (steps onto solid ground) Oh!

SHREK: That'll do, Donkey. That'll do. (walks towards the castle)

DONKEY: Cool. So where is this fire-breathing pain-in-the-neck anyway?

SHREK: Inside, waiting for us to rescue her. (chuckles)

DONKEY: I was talkin' about the dragon, Shrek.

DRAGON'S KEEP - INTERIOR

The pair start making their way through the hallways of the dragon's dark and spooky keep. Shrek is wary, while Donkey is downright terrified. Only an occasional torch lights the way. The passages are littered with bones, armor, and weapons, presumably belonging to the many unsuccessful knights who tried to rescue the princess.

DONKEY: You afraid?

SHREK: No. But...SHHHHHH. (Shushes Donkey)

DONKEY: Oh, good. Me neither. (Get spooked and gasps) 'Cause there's nothin' wrong with bein' afraid. Fear's a sensible response to an unfamiliar situation. Unfamiliar dangerous situation, I might add. With a dragon that breathes fire and eats knights and breathes fire. It sure doesn't mean you're a coward if you're a little scared. I sure as heck ain't no coward. I know that.

Donkey crashes into a pile of knight remains, knocking over a skeleton whose helmet lands on Donkey's head. The skeleton head falls off and Donkey gasps.

SHREK: Donkey, two things, okay? Shut. Up. Now go over there and see if you can find any stairs (Grabs the helmet and puts it on).

DONKEY: Stairs? I thought we was lookin' for the princess.

SHREK: (Picking up pieces of armor) The princess will be up the stairs in the highest room in the tallest tower.

DONKEY: What makes you think she'll be there?

SHREK: I read it in a book once. (walks off)

DONKEY: Cool. You handle the dragon. I'll handle the stairs. I'll find those stairs. I'll whip their butt too. Those stairs won't know which way they're goin'.

Shrek, now disguised as a knight in shining armor walks off further into the castle. Donkey wanders off in the opposite direction, still talking to himself, and pushes his way through a giant set of doors.

DONKEY: I'm gonna take drastic steps. Kick it to the curb. Don't mess with me. I'm the stair master. I've mastered the stairs. I wish I had a step right here. I'd step all over it.

Behind a broken wall, a giant eye opens to see an unaware Donkey. Elsewhere, Shrek spots a light in the window of a tower.

SHREK: Oh! At least we know where the princess is, but where's the...

DONKEY: Dragon! Ahhhhhh!

Donkey screams and takes off running, narrowly dodging the dragon's fiery breath. The dragon chases after Donkey, stomping on the pile of knight remains in its way. Shrek turns around to see Donkey barreling towards him with the dragon close behind him.

SHREK: Donkey, look out!

Shrek manages to grab Donkey out of the way just as the dragon breathes another fireball. Donkey drops to the floor to avoid another fireball, which manages to singe the tuft of his tail. The dragon is just about to eat Donkey when Shrek grabs ahold of its tail.

SHREK: Got ya!

The dragon begins to swing its tail back and forth with Shrek still holding on, then launces him into the air. Shrek crashes through the roof of the tallest tower and into Fiona's room. Fiona wakes up and looks at him lying on the floor unconscious. The dragon now focuses its attention on Donkey, breathing fire at him and forcing him onto a stone bridge. The dragon knocks down portions of the bridge until Donkey is left staying on a lone pillar.

DONKEY: No. Oh, no, No! (the dragon growls) Oh, what large teeth you have! (the dragon roars) I mean white, sparkling teeth!

The dragon pauses, looks at him inquisitively, and then smiles. Donkey might just flatter his way out of becoming dragon food.

DONKEY: I know you probably hear this all time from your food, but you must bleach, 'cause that is one dazzling smile you got there. Do I detect a hint of minty freshness?

The dragon appears to be flattered by Donkey's compliments.

DONKEY: And you know what else? You know what else? You're-- You're--

The dragon leans forward and gazes at Donkey, revealing its long eyelashes and lipsticked mouth. Suddenly it was all clear to Donkey.

DONKEY: --a girl dragon! Oh, sure! I mean, of course you're a girl dragon. You're just reeking of feminine beauty.

The dragon flutters her eyes at him.

DONKEY: What's the matter with you? You got something in your eye?

Dragon blows a heart-shaped smoke ring at Donkey.

DONKEY: Ohh. Oh. Oh. Man, I'd really love to stay, but you know, I'm, uh...(coughs) I'm an asthmatic, and I don't know if it'd work out if you're gonna blow smoke rings and stuff. Shrek!

Dragon picks him up by the tail in her mouth and happily carries him off.

DONKEY: No! Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!

FIONA'S TOWER - INTERIOR

Shrek groans as he gets up off the floor and brushes debris off himself. His back is to a Princess Fiona, laying upright on the bed near the window. Though a bit startled, she is ecstatic to see her knight-in-shining armor. She straightens her dress, lays back down, and then quickly reaches over for bouquet of flowers off the side table. She lays back down and pretends to be asleep, clutching the bouquet to her breast. Shrek turns, takes note of the princess and walks across the room over to her. He bends down over Fiona and she puckers her lips. Shrek takes her by the shoulders and forcefully shakes her.

FIONA: Wha...Wha...

SHREK: Wake up!

FIONA: What?!

SHREK: Are you Princess Fiona?

FIONA: I am... (smiling) awaiting a knight so bold as to rescue me.

SHREK: Ah, that's nice. Now let's go!

Shrek turns to leave and Fiona quickly sits upright.

FIONA: But wait, Sir Knight! This be-ith our first meeting. Should it not be a wonderful, romantic moment?

She tosses the bouquet and lays back down, swooning.

SHREK: Yeah, sorry, lady. There's no time.

Shrek walks back, yanks Fiona's arm. and hauls her out of bed and towards the door.

FIONA: Hey, wait. What are you doing? You know, you should sweep me off my feet out yonder window and down a rope onto your valiant steed.

Shrek yanks on the door handle only for it to snap off.

SHREK: You've had a lot of time to plan this, haven't you?

FIONA: Mm-hmm.

Fiona screams as Shrek suddenly smashes the door down with his shoulder, still holding onto her arm. He rushes down the tower's staircase with Fiona in tow and grabs a torch.

FIONA: But we have to savor this moment! You could recite an epic poem for me.

DRAGON'S KEEP - INTERIOR

Shrek and Fiona cross the bridge connecting the tallest tower to the rest of the castle.

FIONA: A ballad? A sonnet! A limerick? Or something!

Fiona pulls her arm from Shrek's grip. They stop for a moment as Shrek figures out which direction to go.

SHREK: I don't think so.

FIONA: Well, can I at least know the name of my champion?

SHREK: Uh, Shrek.

FIONA: Sir Shrek.

She smiles, clears her throat, and holds out a handkerchief.

FIONA: I pray that you take this favour as a token of my gratitude.

SHREK: Thanks!

Shrek regards the handkerchief curiously and wipes off his sooty face with it, blackening it. He hands it back to an appalled Fiona, but before she can react, they are startled by the dragon's roar and she drops it to the floor.

FIONA: You didn't slay the dragon?!

SHREK: It's on my to-do list, now come on!

Shrek grabs Fiona once again and takes off running towards the direction of the dragon's roar.

FIONA: But this isn't right! You were meant to charge in, sword drawn, banner flying. That's what all the other knights did!

SHREK: Yeah, right before they burst into flames!

He gestures at the skeleton of a knight laying against the wall, a charred outline of a man burned into the stone behind it.

FIONA: That's not the point! Ugh!

Fiona pulls her arm free from Shrek and stops running. Shrek pauses to look around and heads for a set of wooden doors.

FIONA: Wait--where are you going? The exit's over there!

She points her arm to her left and Shrek turns around.

SHREK: Well, I have to save my ass.

FIONA: Ugh. What kind of knight are you?

SHREK: One of a kind.

THRONE ROOM

Shrek quietly pushes open the doors, stepping out onto a balcony of large spacious room. In the center of the room, Dragon has Donkey wrapped up on her tail. Dragon sits on a floor littered with a horde of gold coins and jewels.

DONKEY: Slow down. Slow down, baby, please. Look I believe it's healthy to get to know someone over a long period of time. Just, just call me old-fashioned. I don't want to rush into a... a physical relationship. I'm not...not emotionally ready for a commitment of, uh, this, uh - - "magnitude" really is the word I'm looking for. Magnitude.

Dragon gently caresses Donkey with a single claw.

DONKEY: Hey, that is unwanted physical contact. Hey, what are you doing?

Dragon looks up at the chandelier hanging above them and gently lights its candles with her fire breath.

DONKEY: Okay, okay. Let's just back up a little and take this one step at a time. I mean we really should get to know each other first, you know, as friends or maybe even pen pals. Y'know cause I'm on the road a lot, but I just love receiving cards to read --

Shrek jumps off the balcony, grabbing a chain connected to the chandelier. The chain does not hang low enough for him to be able to grab Donkey and he swings over Dragon. The chain swings back and he is left dangling above her.

DONKEY: Oh y'know I'd, I'd really love to stay, but -- (Dragon tugs at Donkey's tail with her mouth)

DONKEY: Hey. hey don't do that! That's my tail! That's my personal tail. You're gonna tear it off. I don't give permission to-- hey! What are you gonna do with that?

Dragon purses her lips and gets ready to kiss Donkey. Shrek looks up and spots that the chain is jammed above him. He starts shaking it to try and relapse it from the pulley. Suddenly the pulley comes loose and Shrek starts falling.

DONKEY: Hey, now. No way. No! No! No, no! No. No, no, no. No! Oh!

Shrek lands on Donkey and bumps him out of Dragon's grasp just as she is about to kiss him, and she instead kisses Shrek's butt. She opens her eyes and roars. Shrek lets go of the chain and the chandelier falls onto her head, which acts as a collar around her neck. She roars again and Shrek and Donkey take off running. They dodge a blast of fire from Dragon. Shrek grabs Donkey in one arm and then grabs Princess Fiona, who has wandered into the room, with the other arm as he runs past her.

DONKEY: Hi, Princess!

FIONA: It talks!

SHREK: Yeah, it's getting him to shut up that's the trick.

They all gasp as Shrek suddenly stops, having reached the end of the balcony Shrek spots a fallen column that has formed a sort of slide. He jumps on it just as Dragon tries to bite them and slides down it. Unfortunately there is a crack in the stone and it hits Shrek right in the groin. His eyes cross and as he reaches the bottom of the slide, he groans and stumbles off. Dragon chases after them, the chain of the chandelier still unraveling. They are chased by Dragon through a large hall, her chain looping itself around multiple stone pillars as Shrek zigzags around them. Dragon ends up in front of them and breathes fire. Shrek dodges the fire and runs away, leaping over several rows of chains. He comes to a halt.

SHREK: Okay, you two, head for the exit! (setting down Donkey and Fiona) I'll take care of the dragon.

Shrek grabs a sword lodged in the floor and sticks it through a link in the chain and deep into the floor. Shrek catches up with Donkey and Fiona, who are waiting near the exit.

SHREK: Run!

They sprint as fast as they can out of the castle and onto the rickety bridge as Dragon breathes a huge fireball behind them. As they reach the middle of the bridge the fire burns the bridge and it snaps in half. They hang onto the bridge as they are swung to the other side. Donkey, unable to grab on, falls off but Shrek catches him by the tail. Fiona screams in terror as Dragon flies over the boiling lava to get them. Suddenly the chandelier jerks Dragon back, the sword having lodged itself into a stone column and getting the chain stuck. The group quickly climbs up to safety. Dragon lets out a defeated cry, then gives a sad whimper.

VOLCANO - EXTERIOR

The first to climb out, Fiona gracefully slides down to the bottom of the volcano hill.

FIONA: You did it! You rescued me! You're amazing.

Behind her Donkey tumbles his way down the hill.

FIONA: You're -- you're wonderful. You're...

She turns to see Shrek slide down the hill and crash into Donkey.

FIONA: A little unorthodox I'll admit. But...thy deed is great, and thine heart is pure. I am eternally in your debt.

DONKEY: Ahem...

FIONA: And where would a brave knight be without his noble steed?

She reaches down, squeezing Donkey's face.

DONKEY: I hope you heard that. She called me a noble steed. She thinks I'm a steed.

Donkey blushes, causing Fiona to chuckle and Shrek to roll his eyes.

FIONA: The battle is won. You may remove your helmet, good Sir Knight.

Donkey gasps and makes eye contact with Shrek.

SHREK: Uh, no.

FIONA: Why not?

SHREK: I...I have helmet hair.

FIONA: Please. I would'st look upon the face of my rescuer.

SHREK: Oh, no, you wouldn't -- st.

FIONA: But, how will you kiss me?

SHREK: What?

Shrek backs away and bumps into a tree stump.

SHREK: (to Donkey) That wasn't in the job description.

DONKEY: Maybe it's a perk! (Suggestively raises his eyebrows)

FIONA: No, it's destiny. Oh, you must know how it goes: A princess locked in a tower and beset by a dragon is rescued by a brave knight, and then they share true love's first kiss.

They both give Fiona a wide-eyed look.

DONKEY: Hmm? With Shrek? You think --who, whoa, wait a sec. You think that Shrek is your true love?

FIONA: Well...yes.

Fiona sheepishly smiles at Shrek. Donkey and Shrek turn to each other and burst out laughing.

DONKEY: You think Shrek is your true love!

FIONA: (Annoyed) What is so funny?

SHREK: Let's just say I'm not your type, okay?

Fiona: Of course, you are. You're my rescuer. Now -- now remove your helmet.

SHREK: Look. I really don't think this is a good idea.

FIONA: Just take off the helmet.

SHREK: I'm not going to.

FIONA: Take it off.

SHREK: No!

FIONA: NOW!

SHREK: Okay! Easy! As you command,,,your Highness.

Shrek takes off his helmet and reveals his ogre self. Fiona looks at him blankly, confused but not frightened. Shrek awkwardly grins.

FIONA: You're...an ogre.

SHREK: Oh, you were expecting Prince Charming?

FIONA: Well --yes, actually! Oh, no. This is all wrong. You're not supposed to be an ogre! (walks off)

SHREK: Princess, I was sent to rescue you by Lord Farquaad, okay? He's the one who wants to marry you.

The mention of this Lord Farquaad prompts Fiona to turn around in surprise.

FIONA: Well then why didn't he come rescue me?

SHREK: Good question. You should ask him that when we get there.

Shrek turns and removes what little armor is still left attached to him.

FIONA: But I have to be rescued by my true love! Not by some ogre and hi...hi...his pet.

DONKEY: Well, so much for noble steed.

SHREK: Look princess you're not making my job any easier.

FIONA: I'm sorry, but your job is not my problem. You can tell Lord Farquaad that if he wants to rescue me properly, I'll be waiting for him right here.

Fiona sits down determinedly on a nearby rock.

SHREK: Hey! I'm no one's messenger boy, all right? (Advancing toward her) I'm a delivery boy.

FIONA: You wouldn't dare.

Shrek picks Fiona up and slings her over his shoulder like a bag of potatoes.

FIONA: Agghh! Put me down! Aggghh!

SHREK: You comin', Donkey?

DONKEY: Oh, yep! I'm right behind ya.

Fiona is now kicking and screaming.

FIONA: Put me down, or you will suffer the consequences! This is not dignified! Put me down!

Fiona smacks Shrek on the back of the head and screams in frustration.

WOODS

Hours have passed and Fiona has calmed down. She hangs limply while Shrek carries her and Donkey walks behind them.

DONKEY: Okay, so here's another question. Say there's a woman that digs you, right, but you don't really like her that way. How do you let her down real easy so her feelings aren't hurt, but you don't get burned to a crisp and eaten? How do you do that?

FIONA: You just tell her she's not your true love. Everyone knows what happens when you find your...

Shrek cuts her off with a deliberate, bouncing readjustment.

FIONA: Hey! The sooner we get to Duloc the better.

DONKEY: Oh you're gonna love it there, Princess. It's beautiful!

FIONA: And what of my groom-to-be? Lord Farquaad? What's he like?

SHREK: Let me put it this way, princess.

Shrek dumps Fiona to the ground unceremoniously and heads to a nearby pond to wash up.

SHREK: Men of Farquaad's stature are in...short supply.

He chuckles and Donkey joins in.

DONKEY: I dunno, Shrek. There are those who think...little of him.

They laugh even harder.

FIONA: Stop it. Stop it, both of you. You're just jealous that you can never measure up to a great ruler like Lord Farquaad.

SHREK: Yeah, well, maybe you're right, princess. But I'll let you do the...measuring...when you see him tomorrow.

FIONA: Tomorrow?

Panic-stricken, Fiona looks back fearfully at the setting sun.

FIONA: It'll take that long? Shouldn't we stop to make camp?

SHREK: No, that'll take longer. We can keep going.

FIONA: But there's....robbers in the woods.

DONKEY: Whoa! Time out, Shrek! Camp is definitely starting to sound good.

SHREK: Hey, come on. I'm scarier than anything we're going to see in this forest.

Fiona jumps in front of Shrek, blocking him.

FIONA: I need to find somewhere to camp-now!

Both Donkey and Shrek's ears lower, taken aback by her outburst.

CLIFFSIDE

A few minutes later, Shrek is rolling a large boulder away from the mouth of a cave.

SHREK: Hey! Over here!

DONKEY: Shrek, we can do better than that. I don't think this is fit for a princess.

Fiona turns her attention away from the setting sun.

FIONA: No, no, it's perfect. It just needs a few homey touches.

SHREK: Homey touches? Like what?

He hears a huge ripping sound and looks over at Fiona, who has torn the bark off of a tree with her bare hands.

FIONA: A door. Well, gentlemen, I bid thee good night.

She enters the cave and puts the bark door up behind her.

DONKEY: You want me to read you a bedtime story? Cause I will.

FIONA: I said good night!

Shrek looks at Donkey for a second and then reaches to move the boulder back in front of the entrance.

DONKEY: Shrek, what are you doing?!

SHREK: (laughs) I just--you know - - Oh, come on. I was just kidding.

CLIFFSIDE - NIGHT

Later that night Shrek and Donkey are sitting around a campfire. They gaze up into the sky as Shrek points out certain star constellations to Donkey.

SHREK: And, uh, that one, that's Throwback, the only ogre to ever spit over three wheat fields.

DONKEY: Right. Yeah. Hey, can you tell my future from these stars?

SHREK: The stars don't tell the future, Donkey. They tell stories. Look, there's Bloodnut the Flatulent. You can guess what he's famous for. (chuckles)

DONKEY: Alright now I know you're making this up.

SHREK: No, look.

Shrek traces the constellation with his finger.

SHREK: There he is, and there's the group of hunters running away from his stench.

DONKEY: Man that ain't nothin' but a bunch of little dots.

SHREK: You know, Donkey, sometimes things are more than they appear. Hmm?

Shrek glances over to see if Donkey understands him, but is met with a blank look.

SHREK: Forget it.

DONKEY: Hey, Shrek, what we gonna do when we get our swamp anyway?

SHREK: Our swamp?

DONKEY: You know, when we're through rescuing the princess and all that stuff.

SHREK: We? Donkey, there's no we. There's no our. There's just me and my swamp. And the first thing I'm gonna do is build a ten-foot wall around my land.

He turns his back to Donkey

DONKEY: You cut me deep, Shrek. You cut me real deep just now.

Donkey walks over to face Shrek.

DONKEY: You know what I think? I think this whole wall thing is just a way to keep somebody out.

SHREK: No, do ya think? (

Shrek turns away again.

DONKEY: Are you hidin' something?

SHREK: Never mind, Donkey.

He lies on his back. Donkey leans over him.

DONKEY: Oh, this is another one of those onion things, isn't it?

SHREK: No, this is one of those "drop it and leave it alone" things!

DONKEY: Why don't you want to talk about it?

SHREK: Why do you want to talk about it? (turns)

DONKEY: Why are you blocking?

SHREK: I'm not blocking! (turns)

DONKEY: Oh, yes, you are.

SHREK: Donkey, I'm warning you...

DONKEY: Who you trying to keep out?

Shrek gets on his feet and faces Donkey.

SHREK: Everyone! Okay?!

DONKEY: Oh, now we're gettin' somewhere.

Unsee by either of them, Fiona was peeking around the cave door, eavesdropping on the conversation.

SHREK: Oh! For the love of Pete!

Shrek walks over to the edge of the cliff and sits down.

DONKEY: Hey what's your problem Shrek? What you got against the whole world anyway, huh?

SHREK: Look, I'm not the one with the problem, okay? It's the world that seems to have a problem with me. People take one look at me and go "Aah! Help! Run! A big, stupid, ugly ogre!" They judge me before they even know me. That's why I'm better off alone.

Hidden in the shadows of the cave, Fiona's eyes were sympathetic. She closes the door. Donkey stares silently at Shrek for a moment and then sits down beside him.

DONKEY: You know what? When we met, I didn't think you was just a big, stupid, ugly ogre.

SHREK: Yeah, I know.

DONKEY: So, uh, are there any donkeys up there?

SHREK: Well, there's, um, Gabby...the Small...and Annoying.

DONKEY: Okay, okay, I see it now. The big shiny one, right there. That one there?

SHREK: That's the moon.

DONKEY: Oh, okay.

DULOC - FARQUAAD'S BEDROOM

Farquaad's room is is filled with items prepared for his wedding, including crowns and wedding outfits for him and Fiona. Mama Bear is now a taxidermized rug. Soft music plays in the background. Farquaad lays in bed with the Magic Mirror set up at the foot of the bed.

FARQUAAD: Again, show me again.

We hear the sound of tape rewinding.

FIONA: Mirror, mirror, show her to me. Show me the princess.

MIRROR: Hmph.

The Mirror reluctantly rewinds and begins to play again from the beginning, displaying the image of Fiona waiting in her tower.

FARQUAAD: Ah...perfect.

Farquaad looks down and pulls the sheet up to cover himself as the covers rise.

CLIFFSIDE - MORNING

Fiona walks out of the cave and glances at Shrek and Donkey who are still sleeping. She wanders off into the woods, marveling at the nature, and begins to sing. A bluebird flies over to join in her song. She hits higher and higher notes and the bird struggles to keep up with her. Fiona hits a high, horrible note that causes the bird to explode. Fiona looks guilty, but she eyes the eggs that the bird left behind. A little later, Fiona is now frying the eggs over the campfire using a rock skillet. Shrek wakes up, smells the foods, and takes note of Fiona. Donkey is talking to himself in his sleep.

DONKEY: Mmm, yeah, you know I like it like that. Come on, baby. I said I like it...

SHREK: Donkey, wake up. (shakes him)

DONKEY: Huh? What?

SHREK: Wake up.

DONKEY: What? (stretches and yawns)

FIONA: Good morning. Uhmm... how do you like your eggs?

DONKEY: Oh, good morning, Princess!

SHREK: What's all this about?

FIONA: You know, we kind of got off to a bad start yesterday and I wanted to make it up to you. I mean, after all, you did rescue me.

Fiona gets up and sets the eggs down in front of them.

SHREK: Uh, thanks.

Donkey sniffs the eggs and licks his lips.

FIONA: Well, eat up. We've got a big day ahead of us.

Fiona walks off, seemingly in a better mood than yesterday.

SHERWOOD FOREST

The three continue their journey back to Duloc though the woods. Shrek lets out a loud belch.

DONKEY: Shrek!

SHREK: What? It's a compliment. Better out than in, I always say. (laughs)

DONKEY: Well, it's no way to behave in front of a princess!

Fiona belches, stopping Shrek and Donkey in their tracks.

FIONA: Thanks.

DONKEY: She's as nasty as you are.

SHREK: (chuckles) You know, you're not exactly what I expected.

FIONA: Well, maybe you shouldn't judge people before you get to know them.

She smiles and then continues walking, singing softly. Suddenly from out of nowhere, a man swings down and swoops Fiona away.

UNKNOWN: La liberte! Hey!

SHREK: Princess!

The princess and the unknown man land on a limb high above in the trees It is none other than Monsieur Hood, also known as Robin Hood. Fiona breaks away from Hood, who has his hand around her waist.

FIONA: Oh! Wait wait--what are you doing?!

MONSIEUR HOOD: Be still, mon cherie, for I am you savior! And I am rescuing you from this green...

Hood brings Fiona's hand to his chest, and then carpets Fiona's arms with kisses as she pulls back in disgust.

MONSIEUR HOOD: ...beast.

His smile is only met with annoyance, which confuses him.

SHREK: Hey! That's my princess! Go find you own!

MONSIEUR HOOD: Please, monster! Can't you see I'm a little busy here?

Fiona gives Hood a one-handed push and jams her finger into his chest.

FIONA: Look, pal, I don't know who you think you are!

MONSIEUR HOOD: Oh! Of course! Oh, how rude. Please let me introduce myself.

He cups his hands and calls into the woods.

MONSIEUR HOOD: Oh, Merry Men! (laughs)

Suddenly an accordion begins to play and the Merrymen pop out from the bushes. They begin to sing along with Monsieur Hood.

MERRYMEN: Ta, dah, dah, dah, whoo.

MONSIEUR HOOD: I steal from the rich and give to the needy.

MERRYMAN: He takes a wee percentage,

MONSIEUR HOOD: But I'm not greedy. I rescue pretty damsels, man, I'm good.

MERRYMEN: What a guy, Monsieur Hood.

MONSIEUR HOOD: Break it down. I like an honest fight and a saucy little maid...

MERRYMEN: What he's basically saying is he likes to get...

MONSIEUR HOOD: Paid! So...When an ogre in the bush grabs a lady by the tush. That's bad.

MERRYMEN: That's bad. That's bad. That's bad!

MONSIEUR HOOD: When a beauty's with a beast it makes me awfully mad!

MERRYMEN: He's mad, he's really, really mad!

Fiona, still up in the tree, looks down. Her expression changes from confusion to horror as Monsieur Hood sings the last line:

MONSIEUR HOOD: I'll take my blade and ram it through your heart, keep your eyes on me, boys 'cause I'm about to start...

Fiona swings down from the tree limb and kicks Monsieur Hood in the head, knocking him unconscious. She lands with a back flip in front of Shrek and Donkey.

FIONA: Man, that was annoying!

Shrek looks at her in admiration.

MERRYMAN: Why, you little-- (

The Merry Man shoots an arrow at Fiona but she ducks out of the way. The arrow flies past her and towards Donkey, who jumps into Shrek's arms to get out of the way. Fiona demonstrates her martial arts skills and easily defeats up every last Merryman. The Merrymen are left on lying on the ground and Fiona walks away. Fiona looks a little embarrassed as she smoothes out her dress and regains her composure.

FIONA: Uh, shall we?

SHREK: Hold the phone.

Taken aback, Shrek drops Donkey and begins walking after Fiona.

SHREK: Oh! Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on now. Where did that come from?

FIONA: What?

SHREK: That! Back there. That was amazing! Where did you learn that?

Fiona just blushes.

FIONA: Well...(laughs) when one lives alone, uh, one has to learn these things in case there's a...there's an arrow in your butt!

Fiona points downwards at a small arrow jutting out of Shrek's behind.

SHREK: What? Oh, would you look at that?

FIONA: Oh, no. This is all my fault. I'm so sorry.

Shrek lightly tugs at the arrow but stops, wincing in pain. Donkey catches up to them.

DONKEY: Why? What's wrong?

FIONA: Shrek's hurt.

DONKEY: Shrek's hurt! Shrek's hurt?!

Donkey, frantic, begins to scamper around hysterically.

DONKEY: Oh, no, Shrek's gonna die!

SHREK: Donkey, I'm okay.

DONKEY: You can't do this to me, Shrek. I'm too young for you to die! Keep your legs elevated! Turn your head and cough! Does anyone know the Heimlich?!

Fiona grabs Donkey's head and pulls it down to her.

FIONA: Donkey! Calm down! If you want to help Shrek, run into the woods and find me a blue flower with red thorns.

DONKEY: Blue flower, red thorns. Okay, I'm on it. Blue flower, red thorns. Don't die Shrek.

Donkey begins to head in a random direction into the forest.

DONKEY: And if you see a long tunnel, stay away from the light!

SHREK & FIONA: Donkey!

DONKEY: Oh, yeah. Right. Blue flower, red thorns. Blue flower, red thorns...

Donkey marches off, still chanting, until he is out of earshot.

SHREK: What are the flowers for?

FIONA: For getting rid of Donkey.

SHREK: Ah...

Shrek's confused look turns into a big grin.

FIONA: Now you hold still, and I'll yank this thing out.

Fiona grabs hold of the arrow and begins to pull. Shrek yelps and jumps away.

SHREK: Ow! Hey! Easy with the yankin'!

FIONA: I'm sorry, but it has to come out.

SHREK: No, it's tender.

As they continue to talk Fiona keeps grabbing after the arrow as Shrek dodges her attempts.

FIONA: Now, hold on.

SHREK: What you're doing is the opposite of help.

FIONA: Don't move.

SHREK: Look, time out.

Shrek puts his entire hand over Fiona's face, stopping her in her tracks.

FIONA: Would you...

She takes Shrek's hand off her face.

FIONA: Okay. What do you propose we do?

SHERWOOD FOREST - ELSEWHERE

Deeper in the woods, Donkey is hurriedly searching for the flower.

DONKEY: Blue flower, red thorns. Blue flower, red thorns. Blue flower, red thorns. This would be so much easier if I wasn't color-blind! Blue flower, red thorns.

Suddenly he hears a far out yell from Shrek.

SHREK: Owww!

DONKEY: Hold on, Shrek! I'm comin'!

Donkey rips a flower off a nearby bush, which happens to be a blue flower with red thorns, and takes off running.

SHERWOOD FOREST - CLEARING

Back in the clearing, Shrek is laying on the ground facedown, while Fiona stands over him, using both hands to try to remove the arrow.

SHREK: Ow! Not good.

FIONA: Okay. N--Okay. I can nearly see it...It's just about...

SHREK: Ow! Ohh!

He rolls over, knocking Fiona off her feet and causing her to land on top of him. For a moment they stare into each other's eyes.

DONKEY: Ahem.

They are both startled by Donkey's interruption. Donkey, with the flower dropped at his feet, gives them a suggestive look.

SHREK: Nothing happened.

Shrek pushes Fiona off him and rolls over to face Donkey.

SHRK: We were just, uh...

DONKEY: Look, if you wanted to be alone, all you had to do was ask, okay?

SHREK Oh, come on! That's the last thing on my mind. The princess here was just--

Fiona quickly rips the arrow out of Shrek's butt with one great pull.

Shrek: Uggghhh!

He turns to look at Fiona, who playfully shakes the arrow back and forth with a coy smile.

SHREK: Ow!

DONKEY: Hey, what's that? (chuckling) That's...is that blood?

Donkey faints and falls into a pile of leaves. Shrek picks him up and throws him over his shoulder, and the three continue on their journey. There is a montage of scenes as the group heads back to Duloc.

The group comes to a river with no path across, though it is clearly shallow enough to walk over. Shrek climbs to the top of a tree, using his weight to cause the tree to bend over the river and form a bridge. Fiona crosses first and lays a hand on Shrek's back when she gets to the other side. Shrek grins and gets up while Donkey is still crossing, launching him back to the other side. In a field, Shrek swats away at a swarm of flies following him. Fiona grabs a nearby spiderweb from a tree branch and runs through the field, swinging it around to catch the bugs. She spins the branch to form a sort of cotton candy, and hands it to Shrek as a treat. As he walks off biting it, she licks her fingers. Shrek catches a frog and blows it up like a balloon to give to Fiona. Fiona catches a snake, blows into its mouth, fashions it into a balloon animal and presents it to Shrek. Fiona starts a playful shoving match with Shrek, with Shrek ultimately flinging her into the bushes. She throws a twig at him as they both laugh, letting go of their balloons. Donkey jumps after them.

WINDMILL - EXTERIOR

After breaking out of the forest, the group arrives onto a small rise where an old, ruined windmill stands. The fields of Duloc stretch out before before, and further in the distance stands the Duloc Castle.

SHREK: There it is, princess. Your future awaits you.

FIONA: That's Duloc?

Fiona stands with her arm on Shrek's, but Donkey butts in-between them. They both shrug at each other.

DONKEY: Yeah, I know. You know, Shrek thinks Lord Farquaad's compensating for something, which I think means he has a really...

Shrek interrupts Donkey by stepping on his foot, causing him to fall to the ground in pain. Fiona gives Shrek a suspicious look.

DONKEY: Oww!

SHREK: Um, I, uh-- I guess we better move on.

FIONA: Sure. But, Shrek? I'm-- I'm worried about Donkey.

SHREK: What?

FIONA: I mean, look at him. He, he doesn't look so good.

Nothing seems to be wrong with Donkey. Shrek smiles knowingly at Fiona.

DONKEY: What are you talking about? I'm fine.

Fiona kneels down and takes Donkey's head in her arms.

FIONA: Well that's what they always say and then...then...then the next thing you know, you're on your back. Dead.

SHREK: You know, she's right. You look awful. Do you want to sit down?

FIONA: Uh, you know, I'll make you some tea.

DONKEY: I didn't want to say nothin', but I got this twinge in my neck, and when I turn my head like this, look.

Donkey sharply leans his head to the side, letting off a loud crack.

DONKEY: Ow! See?

Shrek and Fiona give each happy looks, having made up an excuse to stall for time.

SHREK: Who's hungry? I'll find us some dinner.

FIONA: I'll get the firewood.

Shrek and Fiona both walk off in separate direction

DONKEY: Hey, where you goin'? Oh, man, I can't feel my toes! (looks down and yelps) I don't have any toes! I think I need a hug.

WINDMILL - EXTERIOR - EVENING

Shrek has built a fire and is cooking something on a spit while Fiona eats.

FIONA: Mmm. This is good. This is really good. What is this?

SHREK: Uh, weed rat. Rotisserie style.

FIONA: No kidding. Well, this is delicious.

SHREK: Well, they're also great in stews. Now, I don't mean to brag, but I make a mean weed rat stew.

Fiona smiles, but it quickly fades as she looks off at Duloc in the distance.

FIONA: I guess I'll be dining a little differently tomorrow night.

SHREK: Maybe you can come visit me in the swamp sometime. I'll cook all kind of stuff for you. Swamp toad soup, fish eye tartare -- you name it.

Fiona is now intently looking at Shrek, smiling.

FIONA: Hmmm, I'd like that.

They gaze into each other's eyes longingly.

SHREK: Um...princess?

FIONA: Yes...Shrek?

SHREK: I, um, I was wondering...are you...(sighs) Are you gonna eat that?

Shrek points to her last piece of food. Fiona, expecting a different question, removes the weedrat while Shrek is annoyed by the words that couldn't come out. Fiona hands it to Shrek and he grabs onto her hand. The two slowly lean towards each other. Donkey interrupts the moment.

DONKEY: Man, isn't this romantic? Just look at that sunset.

Shrek and Fiona are both startled out of their moment. Fiona's mood changes and she sits up to abruptly face the sunset.

FIONA: Sunset?! Oh, no! I mean, it's late. I-It's very late.

She begins backing up toward the windmill.

SHREK: What?

DONKEY: Wait a minute. I see what's goin' on here.

Fiona looks at Donkey and freezes with panic.

DONKEY: You're afraid of the dark, aren't you?

FIONA: Yes! Yes, that's it. I'm terrified. You know, I'd better go inside.

She smiles as she turns around to walk up the windmill's steps. She breathes a sigh of relief.

DONKEY: Don't feel bad, Princess. I used to be afraid of the dark, too, until -- Hey, no, wait. I'm still afraid of the dark.

Shrek groans and Fiona chuckles.

FIONA: Good night.

SHREK: Good night.

Fiona goes inside the windmill, gives Shrek a look, and closes the door. Donkey looks at Shrek with a new eye.

DONKEY: Ohh! Now I really see what's goin' on here.

SHREK: Oh, what are you talkin' about?'

Donkey trots over to Shrek as he kneels by the fire and fiddles with one of the spits.

DONKEY: I don't even wanna hear it. Look, I'm an animal, and I got instincts. And I know you two were diggin' on each other. I could feel it.

SHREK: You're crazy. I'm just bringing her back to Farquaad.

DONKEY: Oh, come on, Shrek. Wake up and smell the pheromones. Just go on in and tell her how you feel.

SHREK: I--there's nothing to tell. Besides, even if I did tell her that, well, you know-- and I'm not sayin' I do, 'cause I don't -- she's a princess, and I'm...

DONKEY: An ogre?

SHREK: Yeah. An ogre.

Shrek tosses the spit aside and trudges away,

DONKEY: Hey, where you goin'?

SHREK: To get...more firewood.

Donkey looks suspiciously over at the large pile of firewood already piled up. Shrek sits on the hill and gazes out at Duloc until nightfall.

WINDMILL - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

Donkey opens the door to the windmill and steps in. The abandoned windmill is filed with shadows and cobwebs. All is quiet and Fiona is nowhere to be seen.

DONKEY: Princess? Princess Fiona? Princess, where are you?

A group of birds flocks out the top of the roof, startling Donkey. He continues on.

DONKEY: Princess?

A hand grips the rungs of a ladder.

DONKEY: It's very spooky in here. I ain't playing no games.

Fiona looks at Donkey, cloaked in shadows, from up above on a platform. She tries to sneak away, but a wood plank breaks and she falls down with a crash. She screams and lands on a sack of flour, launching a cloud of flour into the air. Donkey is frozen with fear, unable to tell who the figure is.

DONKEY: Aah!

FIONA: No, no!

DONKEY: No, help!

FIONA: Shh!

An ogress emerges from the cloud of flour, approaching Donkey.

DONKEY: Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!

FIONA: No, it's okay! It's okay!

DONKEY: What did you do with the princess?!

FIONA: Donkey, shh! I'm the princess.

DONKEY: Aah!

FIONA: It's me, in this body.

DONKEY: Oh, my God! You ate the princess. (to her stomach) Can you hear me?

FIONA: Donkey!

DONKEY: (still aimed at her stomach) Listen, keep breathing! I'll get you out of there!

FIONA: No!

DONKEY: Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!

FIONA: (Covering Donkey's mouth) Shh.

DONKEY: (Muffled) Shrek!

FIONA: This is me.

Donkey looks into her eyes as she pets his muzzle, and he calms down.

DONKEY: Princess...? What happened to you? You're, uh...uh...eh...different.

FIONA: I'm ugly, okay?

DONKEY: Well, yeah! Well was it something you ate? 'Cause I told Shrek those rats was a bad idea. You are what you eat, I said. Now--

FIONA: No! I -- I've been this way as long as I can remember.

DONKEY: What do you mean? Look, I ain't never seen you like this before.

FIONA: It only happens when sun goes down.

Fiona leans over a barrel filled with water, looking at her reflection.

FIONA: "By night one way, by day another. This shall be the norm... until you find true love's first kiss... and then take love's true form."

DONKEY: Aww, that's beautiful. I didn't know you wrote poetry.

FIONA: It's a spell. (sigh) When I was a little girl, a witch cast a spell on me. Every night I become this. This horrible, ugly beast!

Fiona smacks her reflection in the water, which splashes water onto Donkey.

FIONA: I was placed in a tower to await the day my true love would rescue me. That's why I have to marry Lord Farquaad tomorrow before the sun sets and he sees me...like this.

She holds her head and begins to cry.

DONKEY: All right, all right. Calm down. Look, it's not that bad. You're not that ugly. Well, ok, I ain't gonna lie. You are ugly. But you only look like this at night. Shrek's ugly 24/7.

FIONA: But Donkey, I'm a princess, and this is not how a princess is meant to look.

DONKEY: Princess, how 'bout if you don't marry Farquaad?

FIONA: I have to. Only my true love's kiss can break the spell.

DONKEY: But, you know, um...you're kind of an ogre. And Shrek...well...you got a lot in common.

FIONA: Shrek?

WINDMILL EXTERIOR

Shrek is walking towards the windmill with a sunflower in his hand, talking to himself.

SHREK: Princess, I-- Uh, how's it going, first of all? Good? Um, good for me too. I'm okay. I saw this flower and thought of you because it's pretty and-- well, I don't really like it but I thought you might like it 'cause you're pretty. But I like you anyway. I'd-- uh, uh...(sighs) I'm in trouble. Okay, here we go.

He walks up to the door and pauses outside when he hears Donkey and Fiona talking.

FIONA: I can't just marry whoever I want. Take a good look at me, Donkey. I mean, really, who can ever love a beast so hideous and ugly? "Princess" and "ugly" don't go together. That's why I can't stay here with Shrek.

Shrek steps back in shock, misunderstanding the conversation's meaning.

FIONA: My only chance to live happily ever after is to marry my true love. Don't you see, Donkey? That's just how it has to be.

Shrek heaves a deep sigh. He throws the flower down and walks away.

WINDMILL INTERIOR

FIONA: It's the only way to break the spell.

DONKEY: Well you at least gotta tell Shrek the truth.

Donkey walks over to the door.

FIONA: No! You can't breathe a word. No one must ever know.

DONKEY: What's the point of being able to talk if you gotta keep secrets?

FIONA: Promise you won't tell. Promise!

DONKEY: All right, all right. I won't tell him. But you should.

Donkey steps outside and talks to himself

DONKEY: I just know before this is over, I'm gonna need a whole lot of serious therapy. Look at my eye twitchin'.

Fiona opens the door and watches him walk away. She looks down and spots the sunflower left by the door. She picks it up and looks around, then heads back inside and closes the door. Donkey falls asleep by the fire outside.

WINDMILL INTERIOR - MORNING

Donkey is asleep. Fiona is still awake, plucking at petals from the sunflower.

FIONA: I tell him, I tell him not. I tell him, I tell him not...

Fiona picks the last petal off the sunflower, smiling.

FIONA: I tell him! Shrek!

She opens the door and steps outside.

FIONA: Shrek! There's something I want...

Fiona looks around for Shrek only to see Donkey sleeping. She sees the rising sun, and as the sun crests the sky, she turns back into a human. She looks up again to see Shrek stomping towards her. She hurries over to him.

FIONA: Shrek! Are you all right?

She puts her hand on his arm, but he nudges it away and walks past her.

SHREK: Perfect! Never been better.

FIONA: I...I don't...there's something I have to tell you.

SHREK: You don't have to tell me anything, princess. I heard enough last night.

FIONA: You heard what I said?

SHREK: Every word.

Shrek sits down on the steps of the windmill and faces Fiona.

FIONA: I thought you'd understand.

SHREK: Oh, I understand. Like you said, "Who could love a hideous, ugly beast?"

FIONA: But I thought that wouldn't matter to you.

SHREK: Yeah? Well, it does.

Fiona looks at him in shock, tears welling in her eyes. Shrek looks past her and spots a group approaching.

SHREK: Ah, right on time. Princess, I've brought you a little something.

Shrek gestures towards the group and Fiona stands with her mouth wide. Farquaad arrives on horseback, appearing taller than usual, along with an escort of guards. Donkey wakes up with a yawn as the guards march by.

DONKEY: What'd I miss? What'd I miss?

One of the guards looms over him and he begins to scurry away, muttering to himself.

DONKEY: Who said that? Couldn't have been the donkey.

Farquaad stops his horse in front of Fiona.

FARQUAAD: Princess Fiona.

SHREK: As promised. Now hand it over.

FARQUAAD: Very well, ogre. The deed to your swamp, cleared out, as agreed. Take it and go before I change my mind.

Shrek snatches the deed out of the hands of a guard and walks away. Fiona is put off by this exchange. She reverts her attention back to the long-awaited Lord Farquaad.

FARQUAAD: Forgive me, Princess, for startling you, but you startled me--for I have never seen such a radiant beauty before. I am Lord Farquaad.

FIONA: Lord Farquaad? Oh, no, no. Forgive me, my lord, for I was just saying a short...

Farquaad snaps his finger and is lifted off his horse by his guards. Left behind on the horse is a large set of gauntlets and a pair of leg extenders that reached down to the stirrups, which made him look so tall on the saddle. and set down in front of her. Standing at the height of four and a half feet, he is much shorter than Fiona. Her look turns from nervousness to bemusement, and she awkwardly smiles.

FIONA:...farewell.

FARQUAAD: Oh, that is so sweet. You don't have to waste good manners on the ogre. It's not like it has feelings.

FIONA: No, you're right. It doesn't.

Shrek, still standing nearby with his back turned, is hurt by the comment. Donkey watches this exchange with a curious look on his face.

FARQUAAD: Princess Fiona, beautiful, fair, flawless Fiona. I ask your hand in marriage.

Farquaad gets down on one knee and takes Fiona's hand, pulling her down sharply.

FARQUAAD: Will you be the perfect bride for the perfect groom?

Fiona makes eye contact with Shrek before he turns away. Her sad look turns to bitterness.

FIONA: Lord Farquaad, I accept. Nothing would make--

FARQUAAD: Excellent! I'll start the plans, for tomorrow we wed!

FIONA: No!

Shrek spins back around with a hopeful look on his face while Fiona tries to regain her composure.

FIONA: I mean--ah, why wait? Let's get married today. Before sunset.

Shrek scowls and turns away.

FARQUAAD: Oh, anxious, are we? You're right. The sooner, the better. There's so much to do!

Farquaad snaps his fingers and is lifted onto his horse by his guard. The guard offers Fiona assistance, but she looks up onto the saddle on her own.

FARQUAAD: There's the caterer, the cake, the band, the guest list. Captain, round up some guests!

Fiona, Farquaad, and his guards set off towards Duloc. Fiona gives Shrek one last spiteful look.

FIONA: Fare thee well, ogre.

Donkey catches up to Shrek as he his walking away.

DONKEY: Shrek, what are you doing? You're letting her get away!

SHREK: Yeah? So what?

DONKEY: Shrek there's something about her you don't know. Look, I-- I talked to her last night... She's --

SHREK: Yeah I know you talked to her last night. You're great pals, aren't ya? Now, if you two are such good friends, why don't you follow her home?!

DONKEY: But Shrek, I-- I wanna go with you.

SHREK: Hey I told you, didn't I? You're not coming home with me. I live alone! My swamp! Me! Nobody else! Understand? Nobody! Especially useless, pathetic, annoying, talking donkeys!

DONKEY: But, I thought...

SHREK: Yeah. You know what? You thought wrong! (stomps off)

DONKEY: Shrek.

Montage of different scenes. Shrek arrives back home. The swamp is a mess but the fairytale creatures are gone. Fiona is being fitted for her wedding dress. Shrek throws a sunflower into the fireplace. Farquaad proudly tries on his crown. Fiona stares at her wedding cake, pushing down a figure of Farquaad to show his actual height. She notices a suit of armor that reminds her of Shrek. Donkey stops by a river where he finds Dragon crying, both of them happy to see each other. Shrek and Fiona both try to eat dinner but start crying.

SHREK'S HOME

Shrek is sitting at the dinner table when he hears a sound outside. He goes outside to investigate, and sees Donkey assembling a line of branches and small rocks.

SHREK: Donkey? What are you doing?

DONKEY: I would think, of all people, you would recognize a wall when you see one.

SHREK: Well, yeah. But the wall's supposed to go around my swamp, not through it.

DONKEY: It is, around your half. See that's your half, and this is my half.

SHREK: Oh! Your half? Hmm.

DONKEY: Yes, my half. I helped rescue the princess. I did half the work. I get half the booty. Now hand me that big old rock, the one that looks like your head.

Shrek starts pulling down the wall and picks up a large branch. Donkey butts his head against it and the two struggle over it.

SHREK: Back off!

DONKEY: No, you back off.

SHREK: This is my swamp!

DONKEY: Our swamp!

SHREK: Let go, Donkey!

DONKEY: You let go!

SHREK: Stubborn jackass!

DONKEY: Smelly ogre.

SHREK: Fine!

Shrek suddenly lets go of the branch, tripping Donkey over, and he walks away.

DONKEY: Hey, hey, come back here. I'm not through with you yet.

SHREK: Well, I'm through with you!

Donkey starts following him.

DONKEY: Uh-uh! You know, with you it's always "me, me, me!" Well, guess what! Now it's my turn! So you just shut up and pay attention!

Just as Shrek nears the door to his home, Donkey jumps in front of him. Shrek walks in another direction.

DONKEY: You are mean to me! You insult me and you don't appreciate anything that I do! You're always pushing me around or pushing me away.

SHREK: Oh, yeah? Well, if I treated you so bad, how come you came back?

DONKEY: Because that's what friends do! They forgive each other!

SHREK: Oh, yeah. You're right, Donkey. I forgive you...for stabbing me in the back!

Shrek enters the outhouse and slams the door behind him.

DONKEY: Uhhhh! You're so wrapped up in layers, onion boy, you're afraid of your own feelings.

SHREK: Go away!

DONKEY: See! There you are, doing it again just like you did to Fiona. And all she ever do was like you, maybe even love you.

SHREK: Love me? She said I was ugly! A hideous creature! I heard the two of you talking.

DONKEY: She wasn't talkin' about you. She was talkin' about...uh...somebody else.

After a brief silence, Shrek comes up of the outhouse.

SHREK: She wasn't talking about me? Well then who was she talking about?

Donkey turns his back to Shrek.

DONKEY: Uh-uh, no way. I ain't saying anything. You don't wanna listen to me. Right? Right?

SHREK: Donkey!

DONKEY: No!

SHREK: Okay, look. I'm sorry, all right?

Donkey turns his head back to raise his eyebrow, and then looks away again. Shrek sighs.

SHREK: I'm sorry. I guess I am just a big, stupid...ugly ogre. Can you forgive me?

DONKEY: Hey, that's what friends are for, right?

SHREK: Right. Friends?

DONKEY: Friends.

Shrek and Donkey shake on it.

SHREK: So, um, what did Fiona say about me?

DONKEY: What are you asking me for? Why don't you just go ask her?

SHREK: The wedding! We'll never make it in time.

DONKEY: Ha-ha-ha! Never fear, for where, there's a will, there's a way and I have a way.

Donkey whistles loudly, and Shrek looks up to see Dragon flying overhead.

SHREK: Donkey?!

DONKEY: I guess it's just my animal magnetism.

SHREK: (laughs) Aw, come here, you.

Shrek scratches Donkey on the head.

DONKEY: All right, all right. Don't get all slobbery. No one likes a kiss ass. All right, hop on and hold on tight. I haven't had a chance to install the seat belts yet.

Shrek climbs up the chain still slung around Dragon's neck. Dragon lifts Donkey up with her hand. They take off, soaring through the clouds and to Duloc.

DULOC CATHEDRAL - INTERIOR

The church is packed with citizens. Fiona and Farquaad are standing at the altar as the priest conducts the ceremony. Thelonius stands nearby, golding a pillow on which rests the two wedding rings. Men with prompter cards hold up cards that says 'Revered Silence'.

BISHOP: People of Duloc, we gather here today to bear witness to the union....

Fiona glances nervously at the window, noticing the sun slowly dropping toward the horizon.

FIONA: Um-

BISHOP: ...of our new king...

FIONA: Excuse me. Could we just skip ahead to the "I do's"?

Farquaad chuckles then motions to the bishop to indulge Fiona.

FARQUAAD: Go on.

DULOC CATHEDRAL - EXTERIOR

A large group of guards stand outside the cathedral on watch. Suddenly Dragon lands nearby and the guards flee in terror. Dragon looks back at Donkey after him and Shrek climb off of her back.

DONKEY: Go ahead, have some fun. If we need you, I'll whistle. How about that?

Dragon smiles, and nods, and takes off towards the town streets. Shrek runs for the cathedral doors but Donkey hurries to get in his way.

DONKEY: Shrek, wait, wait! Wait a minute! You wanna do this right, don't you?

SHREK: What are you talking about?

DONKEY: There's a line, there's a line you gotta wait for. The priest is gonna say, "Speak now or forever hold your peace." And that's when you say, "I object!"

SHREK: Oh, I don't have time for this!

DONKEY: Hey, wait. What are you doing? Listen to me!

Shrek pushes past him but Donkey pins him against the door.

DONKEY: Look, you love this woman, don't you?

SHREK: Yes.

DONKEY: You wanna hold her?

SHREK: Yes.

DONKEY: Please her?

SHREK: Yes!

DONKEY: (singing) "Then you got to, got to try a little tenderness". (talking) The chicks love that romantic crap!

SHREK: All right! Cut it out! When does this guy say the line?

DONKEY: We gotta check it out.

INTERIOR

As the bishop talks we see Donkey through one of the windows as Shrek tosses him up so he can see.

BISHOP: And so, by the power vested in me...

EXTERIOR

SHREK: What do you see?!

DONKEY: The whole town's in there.

BISHOP: I now pronounce you husband and wife...

DONKEY: They're at the altar!

PRIEST: ...king and queen.

DONKEY: Mother Fletcher! He already said it.

SHREK: Oh, for the love of Pete!

Shrek runs inside without catching Donkey, who hits the ground hard.

INTERIOR

Fiona and Farquaad are leaning in to kiss, but are interrupted when Shrek bursts through the doors. They both turn to see him running down the aisle.

SHREK: I object!

FIONA: Shrek?

Fiona initially looks happily surprised to see him, but quickly becomes upset. The bishop gasps, shuts his book, and quietly slinks off.

FARQUAAD: Oh, now what does he want?

The whole congregation gasps as they see Shrek walk ahead towards the altar. They respond positively to him and begin to do "the wave".

SHREK: Hi, everyone. Havin' a good time, are ya? I love Duloc, first of all. Very clean.

FIONA: What are you doing here?

FARQUAAD: Really, it's rude enough being alive when no one wants you, but showing up uninvited to a wedding...

SHREK: Fiona! I need to talk to you.

FIONA: Oh, now you wanna talk? It's a little late for that, so if you'll excuse me--

She leans over to kiss Farquaad but Shrek pulls her away by the hand.

SHREK: But you can't marry him!

She frees her hand from his grip.

FIONA: And why not?

SHREK: Because--because he's just marrying you so he can be king!

The crowd gasps.

FARQUAAD: Outrageous! Fiona, don't listen to him--

SHREK: He's not your true love.

FIONA: And what do you know about true love?!

SHREK: Well, I--uh--I mean...

Fiona is taken aback by this.

FARQUAAD: Oh, this is precious. (laughs) The ogre has fallen in love with the princess! Oh, good Lord. (laughs)

Farquaad gestures to the man with the prompter card holds up a card that says 'Laugh'. The whole congregation laughs.

FARQUAAD: An ogre and a princess! (laughs)

Shrek looks back at the laughing crowd and then down at the floor, dejected.

FIONA: Shrek, is this true?

Just as Shrek opens his mouth to speak--

FARQUAAD: Who cares?! It's preposterous! Fiona, my love, we're but a kiss away from our "happily ever after." Now kiss me!

Farquaad holds Fiona's hand, puckers his lips, and leans toward her. She looks down at him with disgust, and then averts her attention to the window. The sun is just about to set.

FIONA: "By night one way, by day another." I wanted to show you before.

Fiona backs up and gives Shrek a sheepish smile. As the sun sets, she changes into her ogre self. The crowd gasps and one person faints. Shrek stares at Fiona in astonishment, and then grins.

SHREK: Well, uh, that explains a lot!

Fiona locks eyes with Shrek and smiles.

FARQUAAD: Ugh! It's disgusting! Guards! Guards! I order you to get that out of my sight now!

A large amount of guards run in and grab ahold of Shrek and Fiona.

FARQUAAD: Get them! Get them both!

FIONA: No, no! Shrek!

Shrek and Fiona try to grab each other's arms but are pulled away from each other. Farquaad grabs ahold of his crown and puts it on.

FARQUAAD: This hocus-pocus alters nothing! This marriage is binding, and that makes me king! See?! See?!

FIONA: No, let go of me! Shrek!

SHREK: No!

FARQUAAD: Don't just stand there, you morons!

SHREK: Get out of my way! Fiona!

FARQUAAD: Kill him if you have to--but get him!

Shrek angrily fights back and knocks out a few of the guards, but they are able to subdue him through sheer numbers.

FARQUAAD: Beast, I'll make you regret the day we met! I'll see you drawn and quartered! You'll beg for death to save you!

FIONA: No, Shrek!

FARQUAAD: And as for you, my wife!

Farquaad pulls out a dagger and holds it to Fiona's throat.

SHREK: Fiona!

FARQUAAD: I'll have you locked back in that tower for the rest of your days! I'm king!

Shrek manages to pulls his arm free and he whistles loudly.

FARQUAAD: I will have order! I will have perfection! I will have--

Suddenly Dragon, with Donkey atop her head, crashes through a large window behind him. Farquaad drops his weapon and looks up.

FARQUAAD: Arrrggghhh!

Dragon swoops down and swallows him up in one gulp. The guards either run away or step back.

DONKEY: All right! Nobody move! I got a dragon here, and I'm not afraid to use it.

Dragon roars, causing most of the guards to away in fear. The remaining guards let go of Shrek and Fiona, backing away.

DONKEY: I'm a donkey on the edge!

Dragon belches and Farquaad's crown flies out of her mouth and falls to the ground.

DONKEY: Celebrity marriages. They never last, do they?

The congregation laughs and cheers.

DONKEY: Go ahead, Shrek.

SHREK: Uh, Fiona?

FIONA: Yes, Shrek?

SHREK: I -- I love you.

FIONA: Really?

SHREK: Really, really.

FIONA: I love you too.

Shrek and Fiona kiss. Thelonius takes one of the cards and writes 'Awwww' on the back and shows it to the congregation. Suddenly the magic of the spell pulls Fiona away. She's lifted up into the air and she hovers while the magic works around her. Fiona's voice is heard although she isn't moving her lips.

VOICE: "Until you find true love's first kiss and then take love's true form. Take love's true form. Take love's true form."

Suddenly Fiona's eyes open wide and light up. The force of the spell blows against the crowd and all the windows. All except for one with an image of Farquaad on it, which Dragon breaks with her fist. Fiona is lowered to the ground and Shrek runs up to her.

SHREK: Fiona? Fiona. Are you all right?

Fiona slowly stands up, still an ogress.

FIONA: Well, yes...but I don't understand. I'm supposed to be beautiful.

SHREK: But you are beautiful.

They smile at each other.

DONKEY: I was hoping this would be a happy ending.

Shrek and Fiona kiss and the kiss fades into...

THE SWAMP

...their wedding kiss. Shrek and Fiona are now joined in matrimony in Shrek's swamp. Among the attendees are the fairytale creatures once banished to the swamp, as well as a few Duloc Guards. Shrek and Fiona walk down the aisle to their awaiting carriage, which is made of a giant onion. Fiona tosses her bouquet which both Cinderella and Snow White try to catch. They end get into a cat fight and Dragon catches the bouquet instead. Donkey looks nervous, but Shrek and Fiona give him reassuring looks. The Gingerbread Man has been mended somewhat and now has one leg and walks with a candy cane cane.

GINGERBREAD MAN: God bless us, every one.

The guests party and dance as Donkey takes over singing the song. Shrek and Fiona ride away in their carriage. Cut to a storybook that reads "And they lived ugly ever after...THE END".

DONKEY: (as he's done singing and we fade to black) Oh, that's funny. Oh. Oh. I can't breathe. I can't breathe.

THE END

A light shines down on a storybook. It opens, and a voice turns the pages and reads it.

CHARMING: Once upon a time in a kingdom far far away, the king and queen were blessed with a beautiful baby girl. And throughout the land, everyone was happy. Until the sun went down and they saw that their daughter was cursed with a frightful enchantment that took hold each and every night. Desperate they sought the help of a fairy godmother who had them lock the young princess away in a tower, there to await the kiss of the handsome prince charming!

Book transitions to Prince Charming, wearing a knight's armor and red cape, riding on horseback. He rides through a forest, snowy mountains and barren desert.

CHARMING: It was he who would chance the perilous journey through blistering cold and scorching desert traveling for many days and nights, risking life and limb to reach the Dragon’s Keep.

EXT. - DRAGON'S KEEP

Prince Charming arrives at the Dragon's Keep, an ominous castle surrounded by a moat of lava, but sees that the bridge leading across the lava is destroyed. Charming uses his bow to shoot a roped arrow to a wooden post on the other side and uses it as a zipline. He looks up at a tower that rises above the rest of the castle, a light shining from its window. He enters the Dragon's Keep.

INT. - DRAGON'S KEEP

CHARMING: For he was the bravest...

Charming takes off his helmet, revealing himself to be the narrator's voice. He continues to speak aloud.

CHARMING: ...and most handsome…

He takes off his hair net and dramatically swishes his hair.

CHARMING: ...in all the land. And it was destiny that his kiss...

He sprays air freshener in his mouth.

CHARMING: ...would break the dreaded curse.

Charming continues through the abandoned castle and reaches the princess's tower.

INT. - THE PRINCESS'S TOWER

He enters the princess's room and makes his way to her bed where a figure lays down, obscured by the bed's curtains.

CHARMING: He alone would climb to the highest room of the tallest tower to enter the princess’s chambers, cross the room to her sleeping silhouette, pull back the gossamer curtains to find her--

Charming pulls the curtain and gasps; the figure is no princess--its the Big Bad Wolf. The wolf, busy reading a magazine, is annoyed by the interruption.

WOLF: What?

CHARMING: Princess…Fiona?

WOLF: No!

CHARMING: Oh, thank heavens. Where is she?

WOLF: She’s on her honeymoon.

CHARMING: Honeymoon? With whom?!

----

We see various scenes from Shrek and Fiona's honeymoon. They break into a giant gingerbread house and stay night. In the morning Little Red Riding Hood knocks on the door, fleeing in terror after Shrek and Fiona answer the door. They take the basket she left and have a picnic on the beach. A wave crashes over Shrek and Fiona as they makeout in the sand and the Little Mermaid takes Fiona's place. Fiona drags the mermaid by the tail, and throws her into the sea into a group of sharks. Later, Shrek has some dwarves forge Fiona's wedding ring. They run happily thru a meadow where an angry mob emerges chasing after them. Shrek gets caught a trap and villagers surround Fiona, who fends them off. They take turns farting in a mud bath, using fairies trapped in jars for light. They kiss in the moonlight, transitioning to...

EXT. - SWAMP

...their arrival back at Shrek's swamp.

SHREK: It’s so good to be home!

Shrek scoops Fiona about in his arms and walks to the door of his home.

SHREK: Just you and me and…

Singing can be heard from inside.

INT. - SHREK'S HOUSE

They open the door to find Donkey laying in Shrek's chair.

DONKEY: [singing] Two can be as bad as one…

SHREK: Donkey?

Shrek sets Fiona down.

DONKEY: Shrek! Fiona! Well aren’t you two a sight for sore eyes! Give us a hug, Shrek, you old love machine. [chuckles] And look at you, Mrs. Shrek. How ‘bout a side of sugar for the steed?

SHREK: Donkey, what are you doing here?

DONKEY: Oh! I was just taking care of your love nest for you.

SHREK: Oh, you mean like… sorting the mail and watering the plants?

Shrek gestures to piles of mail stacked on a stool and potted plants that have withered away.

DONKEY: Yeah, and feeding the fish!

SHREK: I don’t have any fish.

DONKEY: You do now. I call that one Shrek and the other Fiona.

Donkey walks over to a fish bowl. The water is rancid and the two fish are clearly dead.

DONKEY: That Shrek is a rascally devil. Get your…[mumbling]

SHREK: Oh, will you look at the time! Well I guess you’d better be going.

Shrek opens the front door and beckons Donkey to head out.

DONKEY: Hey wait a minute, don’t you want to tell me all about your trip? Or how about a game of Parcheesi?

Donkey runs back over to the fireplace and Shrek groans in frustration.

FIONA: Um, actually--Donkey? Shouldn’t you be getting home to Dragon?

DONKEY: Oh, yeah, that. I don’t know. She’s been all moody and stuff lately...so I thought I’d move back in with you guys!

FIONA: Well you know we’re always happy to see you, Donkey.

Fiona kneels down to pat Donkey on the head, then Shrek puts his hands on her shoulders.

SHREK: But Fiona and I are married now. We need a little time, you know, to be together.

Donkey smiles and stares at Shrek, not taking the hint.

SHREK: Just with each other.

Donkey continues to stare.

SHREK: Alone.

DONKEY: Say no more, say no more. You don’t have to worry about a thing. I will always be here to make sure nobody bothers you!

SHREK: Donkey!

DONKEY: Yes, roomie?

SHREK: You’re bothering me.

DONKEY: Oh, OK. All right, cool. I guess uh… me and Pinocchio was gonna catch a tournament, anyway, so uh.... maybe I’ll see y’all Sunday for a barbecue or somethin'.

Donkey solemnly walks out the door and shuts it behind him.

SHREK: He’ll be fine. Now, where were we?

Fiona puts her hands on his arm.

SHREK: Oh. I think I remember.

The two giggle and Shrek takes her in his arms. He leans her over for a kiss, but they are interrupted by Donkey, who is suddenly standing next to them again.

SHREK: Donkey!

In his surprise, Shrek drops Fiona to floor. He leans down to pick her up.

DONKEY: I know, I know! Alone! I’m going! I’m going! Hey, but what do you want me to tell these other guys?

Donkey opens the door, and Shrek and Fiona look up, puzzled.

EXT. - SHREK'S HOME

A group of uniformed men stand outside, playing a fanfare with their trumpets and drums. A page steps forth with a scroll in his hand. After the fanfare is over, one of the trumpeters begins play the Hawaii Five-0 Theme Song. The page smacks him on the head with his scroll. Shrek and Fiona step outside of the house.

PAGE: Enough, Reggie. [clears throat] "Dearest Princess Fiona. You are hereby summoned to the Kingdom of Far, Far Away for a royal ball in celebration of your marriage...

Upon hearing this news Shrek looks uneasy, while Fiona is smiling.

PAGE: ...at which time the King will bestow his royal blessing… upon you and your…eh...

He looks up from the scroll and stares at Shrek.

PAGE: uh…Prince Charming. Love, the King and Queen of Far Far Away. A.K.A. Mum and Dad."

FIONA: Mum and Dad?

SHREK: Prince Charming?

DONKEY: Royal ball?! Can I come?

SHREK: We’re not going.

FIONA & DONKEY: What?!

SHREK: I mean, don’t you think they might be a bit… shocked to see you like this?

FIONA: Well, they might be a bit surprised. But they’re my parents, Shrek. They love me. And don’t worry, they're gonna love you too.

SHREK: Yeah, right. Somehow I don’t think I’ll be welcome at the country club.

FIONA: Will you Stop it? They’re not like that.

SHREK: Then how do you explain Sergeant Pompous and the Fancy Pants Club Band?

The page gives a huff, and walks off with the rest of the men.

FIONA: Oh, come on! You could at least give them a chance.

SHREK: To do what? Sharpen their pitchforks?

FIONA: No! They just want to give you their blessing.

SHREK: Oh, great. Now I need their blessing?

FIONA: well If you want to be a part of this family, yes!

SHREK: And who says I want to be part of this family?

FIONA: Uh, you did! When you married me?!

SHREK: Well, there’s some fine print for you!

FIONA: Ugh! So that’s it, you won’t come?

Shrek: Trust me. It’s a bad idea. We are not going! And that’s final!

After a silence, we cut to Fiona throwing the last of their luggage into the back of their carriage

DONKEY: Hey come on Shrek! We don’t want to hit traffic!

GINGY: Don’t worry! We’ll take care of everything.

Shrek reluctantly leaves the house. Gingy, Pinocchio, the Three Little Pigs, the Big Bad Wolf, and the Three Blind Mice run inside. One of the mice is running to catch up.

MOUSE: Hey, wait for me!

The door shuts and the mouse runs into it. Shrek groans as he hears sounds of glass breaking and music playing. Shrek, Fiona, and Donkey get in the carriage and set out for Far Far Away.

DONKEY: [singing]: Hit it! Move ‘em on! Head ‘em up! Head ‘em up, move ‘em on! Head ‘em up! Move ‘em down! Rawhide! Move 'em on! Head ‘em up! Head ‘em up! Move ‘em on! Move ‘em on! Head ‘em up! Rawhide! Ride ‘em up! Move ‘em on!

COUNTRYSIDE

Donkey continues to sing.

DONKEY: Head ‘em up! Head ‘em up! Move ‘em on! Rawhide! Knock ‘em out! Pound ‘em dead! Make ‘em tea! Buy ‘em drinks! Meet their mamas! Milk ‘em hard! Rawhide! Yee-haw!

Later, they reach a sign that reads "700 miles to Far Away".

DONKEY: Are we there yet?

SHREK: No.

MOUNTAINS

They are now riding in the rain over rocky terrain.

DONKEY: Are we there yet?

FIONA: Not yet.

The are now in snowy mountains. A sign reads "200 miles to Away".

DONKEY: OK, are we there yet?

FIONA: No.

More time passes and they are riding through thick snow.

DONKEY: Are we there yet?

SHREK: No!

They are riding out of the snowy area.

DONKEY: Are we there yet?

SHREK: Yes.

DONKEY: Really?

SHREK: No!!

They pass by a waterfall and over a bridge.

DONKEY: Are we there yet?

FIONA: No!

FOREST

They pass a sign that reads "100 miles to Far Far Away".

DONKEY: Are we there yet?!

SHREK: No, we are not!

Later as they pass through the forest, their dwarf driver is now covering his ears as he holds the reigns.

DONKEY: Are we there yet?!

SHREK & FIONA: No!!

Shrek begins mimicking Donkey.

DONKEY: Are we there yet?

SHREK: Are we there yet?

DONKEY: Hey that’s not funny.

SHREK: Hey that’s not funny.

DONKEY: Hey that’s really immature.

SHREK: Hey that’s really immature.

DONKEY: See this is why nobody likes ogres.

SHREK: See this is why nobody likes ogres.

DONKEY: Alright your loss!

SHREK: Alright your loss!

DONKEY: I’m gonna just stop talking!

SHREK: Finally!

DONKEY: But this is taking forever, Shrek. And there ain't no in-flight movie or nothing!

SHREK: The Kingdom of Far, Far Away, Donkey. That’s where we’re going. Far, far… [softly] away!

DONKEY: All right, all right, I get it. I’m just so darn bored!

SHREK: Well, find a way to entertain yourself!

Donkey sighs. After a pause he sighs heavily. Then he makes a popping sound with his mouth. Then pops again. And again.

SHREK: Oh! For five minutes. Could you not be yourself…for five minutes!

Fiona leans against the window and looks out. She looks back to see Donkey's mouth lean forward. She braces herself and Donkey makes the popping noise again.

SHREK: Gah!! Are we there yet?!

FIONA: [chuckles] Yes!

DONKEY: Oh, finally!

Off in the distance they see the large kingdom of Far Far Away.

INT. - KINGDOM OF FAR FAR AWAY

They pass through the front gates.

DONKEY: Wow! It’s going to be champagne wishes and caviar dreams from now on!

The streets are paved and there are buildings everywhere. People fill the sidewalks and carriages fill the road.

DONKEY: Hey, good-looking! We’ll be back to pick you up later! Ooo, pantyhose!

Fiona looks out with excitement, while Shrek remains cautious.

SHREK: We are definitely not in the swamp anymore.

A crossing guard dressed in full armor brings them to a halt as a limousine-esque carriage passes by.

GUARD: Halt!

A man walks up to the horses and cleans them off, and the carriage driver tosses him a coin.

WOMAN: Hey, everyone, look!

Two women take note of their carriage and start following it. Soon, others take notice and join in. Fiona turns to Shrek, who is clearly not enjoying this. She gives him a reassuring smile, and he tries to return one back.

DONKEY: Hey, ladies! Nice day for a parade, huh? Yeah! You workin' that hat!

A loud crowd has now amassed behind them. They head up the avenue and towards the palace further up the road.

DONKEY: Swimming pools! Movie stars!

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE

A cheering crowd is gathered in front of the palace, filling up the entirety of the square. Confetti rains and fanfare plays. The king and queen stand waiting in front of the palace doors. The carriage pulls and stops in front of the red carpet leading to the palace. An announcer pulls out a scroll and reads it aloud.

ANNOUNCER: Announcing the long-awaited return of the beautiful Princess Fiona and her new husband!

The crowd cheers.

FIONA: Well, this is it.

KING HAROLD: This is it.

ANNOUNCER: This is it.

A man with a box of doves gets ready to open it.

MAN: This is it.

The birds are released and a fanfare is played as Shrek, Fiona, and Donkey step out of the carriage. The crowd gasps, the fanfare dies off, and one of the doves smacks into a wall and falls dead to the ground. The king and queen stand with mouths wide open. It is totally silent. A baby starts crying.

DONKEY: Uh… why don’t you guys go ahead? I’ll park the car.

Donkey jumps into the carriage and the driver starts riding off. Shrek takes takes Fiona's hand and starts walking forward.

SHREK: So… (chuckles) ...you still think this was a good idea?

FIONA: Of course! Look! Mom and Dad look happy to see us.

The king and queen start walking forward and talk amongst themselves.

KING HAROLD: Who on earth are they?

QUEEN LILLIAN: I think that’s our little girl.

HAROLD: That’s not little! That’s a really big problem! Wasn’t she supposed to kiss Prince Charming and break the spell?

LILLIAN: Well, he’s no Prince Charming, but they do look--

SHREK: Happy now? We came. We saw them.

Shrek nervously chuckles as they pass by a few men carrying pitchforks.

SHREK: Now let’s go before they light the torches.

FIONA: They’re my parents!

SHREK: Hello? They locked you in a tower!

FIONA: Hey! That was for my own--

HAROLD: Good! Now here’s our chance. Let’s go back inside and pretend we’re not home!

Harold tries to start walking back but Lillian urges him forward.

LILLIAN: Harold, we have to be--

SHREK: Quick! While they’re not looking we could make a run for it.

FIONA: Shrek! Stop it! Everything’s gonna be--

HAROLD: A disaster! There is no way--

FIONA: You can do this.

SHREK: I really--

HAROLD: Really--

LILLIAN: Really--

SHREK: Don't--

LILLIAN: Want--

SHREK: To…

LILLIAN: Be--

SHREK/HAROLD: Here.

The four stand facing each other. After a brief silence, Fiona goes up to hug Lillian and Harold.

FIONA: Mom, dad. I’d like you to meet my husband…Shrek.

Shrek stands nervously. Lillian tries to appear happy to meet him, while Harold doesn't even try to hide his disgusted look.

SHREK: Well, um… It’s easy to see where Fiona gets her good looks from.

Shrek chuckles nervously. Harold scowls, Lillian is apprehensive, and Fiona cringes.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. DINING ROOM.

We cut Shrek to gulping at the dinner table. To his sides sits Lillian and Fiona, and across from him sits Harold. Lillian looks around nervously and Harold angrily stares at Shrek. Shrek, unsure of how to eat the food on his plate properly, plops it in his mouth, and grins with the food still stuck in his teeth. Lillian cringes. Fiona tries to sip her drink courteously, but accidentally lets out a loud belch and covers her mouth.

FIONA: Excuse me.

Shrek and Fiona laugh.

SHREK: Better out than in, I always say, eh, Fiona?

SHREK: That’s good...

They stop laughing after neither Harold nor Lillian join in.

SHREK: I guess not...

We hear Donkey yelling in another room.

DONKEY: What do you mean, "not on the list"? Don’t tell me you don’t know who I am.

Donkey comes bursting into the room from the kitchen.

DONKEY: Hey! What’s happening, everybody? Thanks for waiting. You know I had the hardest time finding this place.

Donkey pulls up a seat next to Harold.

HAROLD: No! No! Bad donkey! Bad! Down!

FIONA: No, no, no, Dad! It’s all right! It’s all right. He’s with us. He helped rescue me from the dragon.

DONKEY: Yup that's me. The noble steed. Hey waiter! How ‘bout a bowl for the steed?

SHREK: Oh, boy...

Shrek loudly slurps from his bowl.

FIONA: Um, Shrek?

SHREK: Yeah?..Oh! Sorry! Great soup, Mrs Q. Mmm!

FIONA: No, no. Darling.

Fiona demonstrates that the bowl he ate from is for washing his hands.

SHREK: Oh!

The rest of the dinner table does the same.

LILLIAN: So, Fiona, tell us about where you live.

FIONA: Well…Shrek owns his own land. Don’t you, honey?

SHREK: Oh, yes! It’s in an enchanted forest abundant in squirrels and...cute little duckies and--

DONKEY: What?! (laughing) I know you ain’t talking about the swamp!

SHREK: (through his teeth) Donkey!

HAROLD: (sarcastically) An ogre from a swamp. Oh! How original.

Donkey loudly dunks his mouth into his bowl and starts drinking.

LILLIAN: Well, I suppose that would be a fine place to raise the children...

Harold starts choking on his drink and Shrek accidentally swallows his spoon. They both gag until Shrek spits his spoon out onto the table.

SHREK: (chuckling) It’s a bit early to be thinking about that, isn’t it?

HAROLD: Indeed...I just started eating.

LILLIAN: Harold!

SHREK: (offended) What’s that supposed to mean?

FIONA: Dad. It’s great, OK?

HAROLD: Well for his type, yes.

SHREK: My type?!

DONKEY: Uhhh--I gotta go to the bathroom.

The chef and a host of servers enter the room with dinner, including a whole turkey , lobster, and a pig.

CHEF: Dinner is served!

DONKEY: Never mind. I can hold it.

The servers set the food on the table.

CHEF: Bon appetit!

DONKEY: Ooh, Mexican food! My favorite!

LILLIAN: Well, let’s not just sit here with our tummies rumbling. Everybody dig in!

DONKEY: Don’t mind if I do, Lillian.

HAROLD: So, I suppose any grandchildren I could expect from you would be--

SHREK: Ogres, yes!

Harold pulls the lobster towards himself, Shrek does the same with the turkey.

LILLIAN: Not that there’s anything wrong with that. Right, Harold?

HAROLD: Oh, no! No! Of course, not! That is, assuming you don’t eat your own young!

Harold violently stabs into the lobster with a knife.

FIONA: Dad!

SHREK: Oh no, we usually prefer the ones who’ve been locked away in a tower!

Shrek rips off both drumsticks off the turkey and bites them.

FIONA: Shrek, please!

HAROLD: I only did that because I love her!

SHREK: Oh, aye! Daycare or dragon-guarded castle?!

HAROLD: You wouldn’t understand! You’re not her father!

Fiona sighs as Shrek and Harold continue to rip apart their food, sending bits and pieces flying across the table.

LILLAN: It’s so nice to have the family together for dinner.

Harold and Shrek tug over the pig in the middle of the table, accidentally sending it flying upwards.

LILLIAN: Harold!

FIONA: Shrek!

SHREK: Fiona?!

HAROLD: Fiona!

FIONA: Mom!

LILLIAN: Harold…

DONKEY: Donkey!

The pig lands on the table with a thud. Fiona looks at Harold and Shrek, and then runs out of the room.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S BEDROOM.

Fiona enters her room where she stayed as a child. She looks affectionately at a doll of a princess, then moves on. She goes out to her balcony and cries a single tear, then suddenly notices bubbles floating all around her. A woman in the distance floats inside of a bubble and begins to sing.

GODMOTHER: [singing] Your fallen tears have called to me / So, here comes my sweet remedy / I know what every princess needs / For her to live life happily…

The woman floats up to her and pops the bubble. She notices Fiona, and both gasp.

GODMOTHER: Oh! Oh my dear. Oooh, look at you, you're all um...grown up. [chuckles]

FIONA: Um, who are you?

GODMOTHER: Oh, sweet pea! I’m your Fairy Godmother.

FIONA: I have a fairy godmother?

GODMOTHER: Shu-shu-shu--shush, shush. Now, don’t worry. I’m here to make it all better. With...just...a…

Godmother flies into the room and starts singing again.

GODMOTHER: ...wave of my magic wand! / Your troubles will soon be gone! / With a flick of the wrist and just a flash / You’ll land a prince with a ton of cash

She conjures up a load of gold coins.

GODMOTHER: A high-priced dress made by mice no less / Some crystal glass pumps / And no more stress

Out of the closet comes a sparkling gold dress that floats its way onto Fiona.

GODMOTHER: Your worries will vanish, your soul will cleanse / Confide in your very own furniture friends

The furniture starts to animate and move around. They begin to sing along.

GODMOTHER: We’ll help you set a new fashion trend!

Suddenly they are in a spacious room. A chair swoops up Fiona and carries her over to a mirror.

GODMOTHER: I’ll make you fancy, I’ll make you great

FURNITURE: The kind of girl a prince would date!

GODMOTHER: They’ll write your name on the bathroom wall…

MIRROR: For a happy ever after, give Fiona a call!

GODMOTHER: A sporty carriage to ride in style / Sexy man boy chauffeur, Kyle

A giant pink carriage appears with the aforementioned Kyle laying down on top of it, who cracks a whip. The furniture dances around Fiona.

GODMOTHER: Banish your blemishes, tooth decay / Cellulite thighs will fade away! / And oh, what the hey! / Have a bichon frisé!

A small puppy lands in Fiona's hands. Various makeup appliances begin to pester Fiona.

GODMOTHER: Nip and tuck, here and there / To land that prince with the perfect hair / Lipstick liners, shadows blush / To get that prince with the sexy tush / Lucky day, hunk buffet / You and your prince take a roll in the hay / You can spoon on the moon / With the prince to the tune

Godmother and Kyle begin to dance and the music gets faster and more frantic.

FIONA: Stop, please!

GODMOTHER: Don’t be drab, you’ll be fab / Your prince will have rock-hard abs / Cheese soufflé, Valentine’s Day / Have some chicken fricassee! / Nip and tuck, here and there / To land that prince with the perfect hair--

FIONA: Stop!!

The music stops and Fiona's fancy dress turns to dust.

FIONA: (chuckles) Look...thank you very much, Fairy Godmother, but I really don’t need all this.

Godmother and the furniture collectively gasp, the furniture begins to shuffle away, grumbling.

Shrek starts knocking at the door and a shelf moves over to block it.

SHREK: Fiona? Fiona?

He forces his way in and to see Fairy Godmother floating next to Fiona, who has the puppy in her arms. The furniture move back to their original positions. Godmother looks surprised to see Shrek. Donkey comes running in.

DONKEY: Oh! You got a puppy? All I got in my room was shampoo.

FIONA: Oh...uh…Fairy Godmother, furniture…I’d like you to meet my husband, Shrek.

GODMOTHER: (in disbelief) Your husband? What--what did you say? When did this happen?

FIONA: Shrek is the one who rescued me.

GODMOTHER: But that can’t be right!

SHREK: Oh, great, more relatives!

FIONA: She’s just trying to help.

SHREK: Good! She can help us pack. Get your coat, dear. We’re leaving.

Shrek opens up his suitcase.

FIONA: What?

DONKEY: Leaving? I don’t want to leave.

FIONA: When did you decide this?

SHREK: Shortly after arriving.

FIONA: Look, I I’m sorry…

GODMOTHER: No no no no, that’s all right. I need to go, anyway. But remember, dear, if you should ever need me…happiness…is just a teardrop away.

Godmother holds out a business card to Fiona, but Shrek snatches it out of her hand.

SHREK: Thanks, but we’ve got all the happiness we need. Happy, happy, happy!

GODMOTHER: So I see...let’s go, Kyle.

Godmother steps out the balcony and flies away in the pink carriage with Kyle driving.

FIONA: Very nice, Shrek.

SHREK: What? I told you coming here was a bad idea.

FIONA: You could’ve at least tried to get along with my father!

SHREK: Ya know, somehow I don’t think I was going to get Daddy’s blessing even if I did want it!

The dog starts barking.

FIONA: Well do you think it might be nice if somebody asked me what I wanted?

SHREK: Sure. Do you want me to pack for you?

FIONA: You’re unbelievable! You’re behaving like a…

SHREK: Go on! Say it!

FIONA: Like an ogre!

SHREK: Well here’s a news flash for you! Whether your parents like it or not… I am an ogre!

The dog continues to bark and Shrek roars in its face. It stops and cowers.

SHREK: And guess what, princess? That’s not about to change.

FIONA: I’ve made changes for you, Shrek. Think about that.

Fiona steps out and the lets the door slam behind her.

DONKEY: That’s real smooth, Shrek. "I’m an ogre!" [mimics Shrek roaring]

Shrek goes to open the door but hears Fiona crying. He sighs and leans his back to the door.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. MASTER BEDROOM.

Up one floor from Fiona's room, Harold stands at a balcony. He has been listening the whole time.

HAROLD: I knew this would happen.

Lillian speaks from inside the room.

LILLIAN: You should. You started it.

Harold walks back inside the bedroom. Lillian is sitting in bed with a book in hand.

HAROLD: I can hardly believe that, Lillian. I mean really, he’s the ogre. Not me.

LILLIAN: I think, Harold, you’re taking this a little too personally. This is Fiona’s choice.

HAROLD: Yes, but she was supposed to choose the prince we picked out for her! I mean, you expect me to give my blessings to this…this...thing?

LILLIAN: Fiona does. And she’ll never forgive you if you don’t. I don’t want to lose our daughter again, Harold.

Harold sighs.

LILLIAN: Ugh, you act as if love is totally predictable. Don’t you remember when we were young? And oh, we used to walk down by the lily pond and they were in bloom…

HAROLD: (starting to reminisce) Our first kiss... (snapping out of it) it’s not the same! I don’t think you realize that our daughter has married a monster!

LILLIAN: Oh, stop being such a drama king.

HAROLD: Fine! Fine! Pretend there’s nothing wrong! (dances around) La, di, da, di, da, di da! Isn’t it all wonderful! I’d like to know how it could get any worse!

From behind him, Godmother's carriage floats up to the balcony and Godmother opens the door.

GODMOTHER: Hello, Harold.

Harold yelps.

LILLIAN: What happened?

HAROLD: Uh, nothing! Nothing, dear! Just the old crusade wound playing up a bit! [chuckles] I’ll... just stretch it out here for a while!

He walks out to the balcony and shuts the doors behind him.

GODMOTHER: You better get in. We need to talk.

HAROLD: Actually, Fairy Godmother, off to bed. [yawns] Already taken my pills, and they tend to make me a bit drowsy. So, um how about…

A large man steps behind Harold.

HAROLD: ...uh, we, we make this a quick visit. What? What?

INT. - GODMOTHER'S CARRAIGE

The man shoves him inside the carriage and enters after him. Harold is sat between the man and another similar looking man to his other side.

HAROLD: Oh, hello. Ha-ha-ha!

The carriage flies off.

HAROLD: So, what’s new?

Godmother is sat across from Harold, and next to her sits Charming.

GODMOTHER: You remember my son, Prince Charming?

HAROLD: Charming! Oh! Is that you? My gosh! It's been years! How--when...when, when, when did you get back?

CHARMING: (calmly) Oh, about five minutes ago, actually... (angrily) after I endured blistering winds! Scorching desert! I climbed to the highest room of the tallest tower–-

Charming, who is now standing up from his seat, is sat down by Godmother and shushed.

GODMOTHER: Mummy can handle this.. (continuing her son's rant) He endures blistering winds and scorching desert! He climbs to the highest bloody room of the tallest bloody tower!

HAROLD: But, but, but...

GODMOTHER: And what does he find? Some gender-confused wolf telling him that his princess--

HAROLD: If I could just--

GODMOTHER: --is already married!

HAROLD: I mean, It wasn’t my fault. He didn’t get there in time.

GODMOTHER: Stop the car!

The carriage comes to a sudden stop.

GODMOTHER: Harold...

The men crack their knuckles.

GODMOTHER: You force me to do something I really don’t want to do.

Godmother rolls down the window.

HAROLD: (gasps) Where are we?

The carriage is stopped at a drive-thru window.

PRICILLA: Well, hi there! Welcome to Friar’s Fat Boy, may I take your order?

GODMOTHER: My diet is ruined! I hope you’re happy. (turns to the clerk) Er… okay. Two Renaissance Wraps, no mayo… chili ring...

CHARMING: I’ll have the Medieval Meal.

GODMOTHER: Yeah, one Medieval Meal and Harold… curly fries?

HAROLD: No, thank you.

GODMOTHER: Sourdough soft taco, then?

HAROLD: No, really, I’m fine.

PRICILLA: Your order, Fairy Godmother.

The clerk hands her their order in a bad, and then a large battle-axe.

PRICILLA: And this comes with the Medieval Meal.

GODMOTHER: There you are, dear.

Godmother hands Charming the axe. The carriage takes off.

GODMOTHER: You see we made a deal, Harold, and I assume you don’t want me to go back on my part.

HAROLD: (sighs) Indeed not.

GODMOTHER: So Fiona and Charming will be together.

HAROLD: Yes.

GODMOTHER: Oh, believe me, Harold. It’s what’s best. Not only for your daughter…

Godmother bites into her food and talks with her mouth full.

GODMOTHER:...but for your Kingdom.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. MASTER BEDROOM.

They arrive back at the balcony of the master bedroom and Harold is pushed out.

HAROLD: What am I supposed to do about it?

The battle axe is tossed into Harold's hands.

GODMOTHER: Use your imagination.

Godmother shuts the door and the carriage flies off. Harold stands unsure, still clutching the axe, staring out at the moon.

EXT. - THE POISON APPLE. NIGHT.

A hooded man on horseback arrives at The Poison Apple, a ramshackle tavern. The man is Harold in disguise. He dismounts his horse and enters the tavern. He knocks on the door and an eye peeks out.

CYCLOPS: Oh…uh come on in, Your Majesty.

Cyclops opens the door and lets Harold in.

INT. - THE POISON APPLE.

The tavern is a seedy gathering of misfits. Pirates and witches sit at the tables. Two trees arm wrestle and two dwarfs fight. Someone is playing darts with throwing axes. Captain Hook plays the piano and sings. Harold tries to hide his identity with his cloak and walks over to the bar. Next to him, the Headless Horseman downs a drink and burps. Harold tries to get the attention of the bartender.

HAROLD: (clears his throat) Um, excuse me?

He turns to look down at a feminine frog sipping a martini on a stool.

MISS FROG: Hey. Do I know you?

HAROLD: Uh, no, you must be mistaking me for someone else. Uh… excuse me. I’m looking for the Ugly Stepsister.

The bartender turns around and leans on the bar, scowling at Harold. It is Doris, otherwise known as the Ugly Stepsister.

HAROLD: Ah! There you are. Right. You see, I...I need to have someone taken care of.

DORIS: (in a deep voice) Who’s the guy?

HAROLD: Well, he’s not a guy, per se. Um… He’s an ogre.

The whole tavern gasps and Hook stop playing.

DORIS: Hey, buddy, let me clue you in. There’s only one fella who can handle a job like that, and, frankly…he don't like to be disturbed.

HAROLD: Where could I find him?

Harold knocks on a door and lets himself in. The room is completely dark, except for the moonlight shining through a window. A shadowy figure sits with their boots on a table.

HAROLD: H-Hello?

A pair of bright green eyes appear from the darkness.

PUSS: Who dares enter my room?

HAROLD: Sorry! I hope I’m not interrupting, but I’m told you’re the one to talk to about an...ogre problem?

PUSS: You are told correct, but for this I charge a great deal of money.

HAROLD: Would… this be enough?

Harold tosses a small sack onto the table. Out from the shadows, a sword slices open the sack and gold coins spill out onto the table.

PUSS: Hmm. You have engaged my valuable services...your Majesty. Just tell me where I can find this ogre.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S BEDROOM. NIGHT.

Shrek and Fiona lay in bed, which is just big enough to fit them both. Fiona is fast asleep while Shrek is awake, tossing and turning. He notices an ornate clock that features a prince and princess kissing, and then turns onto his back. He then stares at a poster of a handsome man named Sir Justin stuck to the bottom of the canopy above them. Shrek gets out of bed and looks out the window and stares at the Far Far Away sign. He goes over to the fireplace to warm up, but notices Fiona's childhood toys on the mantelpiece. One is a figure of a knight, who is about to slay a fallen ogre. Shrek picks up a toy princess that resembles Fiona and it speaks.

PRINCESS TOY: Dear knight, I pray that you take this favor as a token of my gratitude.

Shrek puts the toy back and then looks over at a small chest on a table in the corner of the room. He opens it to see a book inside, but the box start playing music. He quickly shuts it and looks over to make sure Fiona is still sleeping. He quickly opens the box and snatches the book out from it. He opens it, and Fiona's voice reads it in his head.

FIONA: Dear Diary. Sleeping Beauty is having a slumber party tomorrow, but Dad says I can’t go. He never lets me out after sunset.

He turns the page to the next entry in the diary.

FIONA: Dad says I’m going away for a while. Must be like some finishing school or something.

He scoffs and turns the page.

FIONA: Mom says that when I’m old enough, my Handsome Prince Charming will rescue me from my tower and bring me back to my family!

Turns the page.

FIONA: And we'll all live happily ever after!

With his mouth with open, Shrek turns to the next page.

FIONA: Mrs. Fiona Charming.

He frantically turns the pages which all read aloud "Mrs. Fiona Charming". He is surprised by a knock at the door, and sets the diary down. He opens the door to see Harold standing in the hall.

HAROLD: Sorry. I hope I’m not interrupting anything.

SHREK: No, no. I was just reading a, uh…a scary book.

HAROLD: I was hoping you’d let me apologize for my despicable behavior earlier.

SHREK: Okay?..

HAROLD: I don’t know what came over me. Do you suppose we could pretend it never happened and start over?

SHREK: Look, Your Majesty, I just…

SHREK: Please, call me Dad.

SHREK: Dad. We both acted like ogres. Maybe we just need some time to get to know each other.

HAROLD: Excellent idea! I was actually hoping you might join me for a morning hunt. A little...father-son time? I know it would mean the world to Fiona.

Shrek stares back at Fiona, still asleep, then sighs.

HAROLD: Shall we say 7:30 by the old oak?

FOREST. DAY.

Shrek and Donkey are walking through a thick forest. Far Far Palace is far off over the hills behind them.

SHREK: Face it, Donkey! We’re lost.

DONKEY: We can’t be lost! We followed the king’s instructions exactly. What did he say? "Head to the darkest part of the woods…"

SHREK: Aye.

DONKEY: "Past the sinister trees with those scary-looking branches."

SHREK: Check.

Donkey runs over to a bush in the shape of a busty figure.

DONKEY: Yeah, and there’s the bush shaped like Shirley Bassey!

SHREK: We passed that bush three times already!

DONKEY: Hey, you were the one who said you didn't want to stop and get directions.

SHREK: Oh, great. My one chance to fix things up with Fiona’s dad, and I end up lost in the woods with you!

DONKEY: Alright you don’t have to get huffy with me, I’m only trying to help.

SHREK: I know! I know. (sighs) I’m sorry, all right?

DONKEY: Hey, don’t worry about it.

SHREK: I just really need to make things work with this guy.

DONKEY: Yeah, sure. Now let’s go bond with Daddy.

Someone is looking at Shrek and Donkey from up in a tree. They are making purring sounds.

SHREK: Well, well, well, Donkey. I know it was kind of a tender moment back there, but the purring?

DONKEY: Man, what are you talking about? I ain’t purring.

SHREK: Oh, sure. What’s next? A hug?

DONKEY: Hey, Shrek. Donkeys don’t purr. What do you think I am, some kind of a…

A figure jumps down onto the path in front of them. It is an orange cat, wearing a hat, cape, boots, and brandishing a fencing sword.

PUSS: Ha-ha! Fear me, if you dare! (hisses)

SHREK: Hey look! A little cat.

DONKEY: Look out, Shrek! He got a piece!

SHREK: It’s a cat, Donkey. Come here, little kitty, kitty. Come on, little kitty. Come here. Oh! Come here, little kitty.

Puss throws off his cape, sticks his sword into the ground, and leaps towards Shrek. With his claws drawn he grabs onto Shrek's leg. Shrek screams in pain.

DONKEY: Hold on, Shrek! I’m coming!

Puss is climbing all over Shrek's body and gets into his clothes.

SHREK: Come on! Oh, get it off! Oh, get it off! Oh, God. Oh… No! Ooh! Aagh!

Puss comes ripping out the front of Shrek's shirt, and then digs his claws into his leg again.

DONKEY: Look out, Shrek! Hold still!

SHREK: Get it off!

DONKEY: Shrek! Hold still!

Donkey tries to kick Puss with his hind legs, but Puss dodges and hits Shrek in the crotch instead. Shrek drops to his knees and clutches the area,

DONKEY: Did I miss?

SHREK: No. You got them.

Puss leaps back over them, cartwheeling in the air, lands back in his boots and picks up his hat and sword.

PUSS: Now, ye ogre, pray for mercy from… Puss…in Boots!

He cuts a letter P mark in a tree, similar to Zorro.

SHREK: (furious) Ohh, I’ll kill that cat!

PUSS: Ah-ha-ha!

Puss starts coughing and then heaving onto the floor. Shrek and Donkey stand confused until Puss finally spits out a hairball.

PUSS: (chuckles) Hairball.

DONKEY: Oh! That is nasty!

Shrek picks Puss up by the back of the neck.

SHREK: What should we do with him?

DONKEY: I say we take the sword and neuter him right here. Give him the Bob Barker treatment!

PUSS: (frightened) Oh, no! Por favor! Please! I implore you! It was nothing personal, Señor! I was doing it only for my family. My mother, she is sick. And my father lives off the garbage! The king offered me much in gold and I have a litter of brothers…

Shrek covers Puss' mouth with his finger.

SHREK: Whoa...whoa...whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Fiona’s father paid you to do this?

PUSS: The rich King? Sí.

Shrek drops Puss to the ground and he screeches.

SHREK: Well, so much for Dad’s royal blessing.

DONKEY: Oh come on, Shrek, don’t feel bad. Almost everybody that meets you wants to kill you.

Shrek sits down on a nearby rock, looking down.

SHREK: Gee, thanks. (sighs) Maybe Fiona would’ve been better off if I were some sort of Prince Charming.

PUSS: Si, that’s what the King said.

Donkey gives him a dirty look.

PUSS: Oh, uh… sorry. I thought that question was directed at me.

DONKEY: Shrek, Fiona knows you’d do anything for her.

SHREK: Well, it’s not like I wouldn’t change if I could. I just… I just wish I could make her happy. Hold the phone…

Shrek pulls out the business card he took from Fairy Godmother earlier. He reads it.

SHREK: "Happiness." "A tear drop away." Donkey! Think of the saddest thing that’s ever happened to you.

DONKEY: Aw, man, where do I begin? Well first there was the time that old farmer tried to sell me for some magic beans. I ain't never got over that. Then this fool went off and had a party and he have the guests trying to pin the tail on me. Then they got all drunk and start beating me with a stick going, "Piñata! Piñata!" What is a piñata, anyway?!

SHREK: No, Donkey! I need you to cry!

DONKEY: Yeah, well don’t go projecting on me! I know you’re feeling bad, but you gotta let your own--

Puss forcefully steps on Donkey's hoof. Donkey screams in pain.

DONKEY: You little, hairy, litter-licking sack of...

Donkey sheds a tear, and Shrek lets it fall onto the card. A bubble is conjured, and Fairy Godmother appears in it.

GODMOTHER: What? Is it on? Is it on? [clears throat] This is Fairy Godmother. I’m either away from my desk or with a client. But if you come by the office, we’ll be glad to make you a personal appointment. Have a happy ever after.

The bubble bursts into sparkling dust.

DONKEY: Oh…

SHREK: Are you up for a little quest, Donkey?

DONKEY: That’s more like it! Shrek and Donkey, on another whirlwind adventure! (Singing) Ain’t no stoppin’ us now! Whoo! We’re on the move!

Shrek and Donkey start walking off.

PUSS: Stop, Ogre! I have misjudged you.

SHREK: Join the club. We’ve got jackets.

PUSS: On my honor, I am obliged to accompany you until I have saved your life as you have spared me mine.

DONKEY: I'm sorry, the position of annoying talking animal has already been taken. Let’s go, Shrek! Shrek?

Shrek looks down at Puss, who gives him a cute, helpless look. Shrek smiles.

DONKEY: Shrek!

SHREK: Aw, come on, Donkey. Look at him… in his wee little boots. You know, how many cats can wear boots? Honestly. Aw, let’s keep him!

DONKEY: Say what?!

Puss purrs and Shrek marvels at his cuteness,

DONKEY: Ahh!

Shrek scoops him up into his arms and begins walking with Donkey.

SHREK: Aw, listen. He’s purring!

DONKEY: Oh, so now it’s cute!

SHREK: Aw, come on, Donkey. Lighten up.

DONKEY: Lighten up? Oh, I should lighten up?! Look who’s telling who to lighten up!

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S BEDROOM. MORNING.

Fiona is awaken by the puppy licking her nose.

FIONA: [giggles] Shrek!

She looks up and the dog barks. She sits up with concerned look on her face,

FIONA: Shrek?

She gets up and walks to the balcony, only to notice the diary opened face down. She picks it up to a page of a drawing of Fiona and a prince kissing.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. MORNING.

Harold and Lillian are with servants outside in a courtyard, looking at different samples of carpet. Harold looks distracted,

LILLIAN: They’re both festive, aren’t they? What do you think, Harold?

HAROLD: Um… yes, yes. Fine. Fine.

Lillian scoffs and sends the servants away.

LILLIAN: Try to at least pretend you’re interested in your daughter’s wedding ball.

HAROLD: Honestly, Lillian, I don’t think it matters. How do we know there will even be a ball?

Fiona steps out from the palace doors.

FIONA: Mom! Dad!

LILLIAN: Oh, hello, dear.

HAROLD: What’s that, Cedric? Right! Coming!

Harold walks off before Fiona reaches them.

FIONA: Mom, have you seen Shrek?

LILLIAN: I haven’t. You should ask your father. Be sure and use small words, dear. He’s a little slow this morning.

Harold walks up to Cedric, a servant, who is carrying a bowl.

CEDRIC: Can I help you, Your Majesty?

HAROLD: Ah, yes! Um…

Harold sticks his finger into the bowl and tastes it.

HAROLD: Mmm! Exquisite. What do you call this dish?

CEDRIC: That would be the dog’s breakfast, Your Majesty.

HAROLD: Ah, yes. Very good, then. Carry on, Cedric.

Fiona catches up and Cedric walks away.

FIONA: Dad? Dad, have you seen Shrek?

HAROLD: Uh, no I haven’t, dear.

Harold walks off again, going up to servants and trying to appear busy.

HAROLD: I’m sure he just went off to look for a nice… mud hole to cool down in. You know, after your little spat last night.

FIONA: Oh. You heard that, huh?

Harold continues to walk away but Fiona keeps up.

HAROLD: Darling, the whole kingdom heard you. I mean, after all, it is in his nature to be…well, a bit of a brute.

FIONA: Him? You know, you didn’t exactly roll out the Welcome Wagon!

HAROLD: Well, what did you expect?! Look at what he’s done to you.

FIONA: Shrek loves me for who I am. I would think you’d be happy for me.

HAROLD: Darling, I’m just thinking about what’s best for you. Maybe you should do the same.

Harold leaves and leaves Fiona standing.

FOREST

Donkey is walking behind Shrek, who is still carrying Puss. Donkey eyes Puss suspiciously as he whispers into Shrek's ear. Shrek glances back at Donkey.

SHREK: No, really?

Shrek and Puss laugh. They walk out into a clearing.

DONKEY: Oh…

EXT. - FAIRY GODMOTHER'S COTTAGE

Off in the distance they see a small cottage. Connected to it is a giant factory with colored gases rising out from its chimneys.

DONKEY: Oh, no. That’s the ol' Keebler’s place! Let’s just back away slowly.

PUSS: That’s the Fairy Godmother’s cottage. She’s the largest producer of hexes and potions in the whole kingdom.

SHREK: Then why don’t we pop in there for a spell? Ha-ha! Spell!

Shrek chuckles while Puss laughs loudly and they walk on. With an annoyed look on his face, Donkey follows them.

PUSS: He makes me laugh!

INT. - FAIRY GODMOTHER'S COTTAGE

The three enter through the front door of the cottage and into a reception area. At the desk sits an elf writing into a book.

SHREK: Hi. I’m here to see the--

JEROME: The Fairy Godmother. I’m sorry. She is not in.

Godmother's voice sounds from a speaker system next to the receptionist.

GODMOTHER: Jerome, coffee and a Monte Cristo. Now!

JEROME: [sighs] Yes, Fairy Godmother. Right away. Look, she’s not seeing any clients today, OK?

SHREK: That’s OK, buddy. We’re from the union.

JEROME: The union?

SHREK: We represent the workers in all magical industries, both evil and benign.

JEROME: Oh! Oh, right.

SHREK: Are you feeling at all degraded or oppressed?

Jerome turns the speaker to face the other way.

JEROME: Uh… a little. W--w--we don’t even have dental.

SHREK: They don’t even have dental. Okay, we're just gonna have a look around. Oh. By the way. I think it’d be better if the Fairy Godmother didn’t know we were here. Know what I’m saying? Huh?

DONKEY: Hmm?

SHREK: Huh?

DONKEY: Huh? Huh? Huh?!

SHREK: Stop it.

JEROME: (whispers) Of course. Go right in.

The three walk through a door next to the receptionist.

INT. - POTION FACTORY

From up above on a catwalk, the three look out at the factory. The workers are all elves wearing white hazmat suits. Chemicals are poured into giant vats. Potions are put onto conveyor belts. Ingredients are tested and mixed. Shrek notices a set of doors at the other end of the room with a sign above that reads "Potion Room". They see flashing lights accompanied by booming sounds coming from a doorway to their right. They head inside and walk down a hallway, which leads to another set of doors. They can hear the Godmother behind it as well as the source of the flashes.

GODMOTHER: A drop of desire! [giggles] Naughty!

Inside a giant cauldron pours out gas as Godmother dumps various vials into it.

GODMOTHER: A pinch of passion. [laughs] And just a hint of…lust! [laughs]

SHREK: Excuse me.

Shrek and company walk in, and Godmother gasps.

SHREK: Sorry to barge in like this but uh--

GODMOTHER: What in Grimm’s name are you doing here?

SHREK: Well...it seems that Fiona’s not exactly happy.

GODMOTHER: Oh-ho-ho! And there’s some question as to why that is? Well, let’s explore that, shall we?

Godmother hovers over to wall of bookshelves filled with books.

GODMOTHER: Ah. P, P, P, P, P…Princess.

She pulls out a book titled "Cinderella".

GODMOTHER: Cinderella! Here we are. "Lived happily ever after." Oh…[laughs] No ogres!

She tosses the book to the ground and pulls out another.

GODMOTHER: Let’s see. Snow White. A handsome prince. Oh...no ogres.

She continues to pull out books and toss them.

GODMOTHER: Sleeping Beauty. Oh, no ogres! Hansel and Gretel? No! Thumbelina? No. The Golden Bird, the Little Mermaid, Pretty Woman…No, no, no, no, no!

She flies down and gets in Shrek's face.

GODMOTHER: You see, ogres don’t live happily ever after.

Shrek jams his finger at Godmother.

SHREK: All right, look, lady!

GODMOTHER: Don’t you point… those dirty green sausages at me!

They get closer towards each other and glare into each other's eyes. They are interrupted by a worker who comes through the door.

WORKER: Your Monte Cristo and coffee--oh! Sorry.

SHREK: Ah… that’s okay. We were just leaving. Very sorry to have wasted your time, Miss Godmother.

GODMOTHER: Just… go. Come on, guys.

The three head back out the doors. A worker pushing a cart walks by the janitor's closet. It opens and Shrek pulls him and the cart inside. Shrek puts the hazmat suit on which only manages to cover his head. He walks through the factory floor pushing the cart.

SHREK: TGIF, eh, buddy? Working hard or hardly working, eh, Mac?

He enters the Potion Room he saw earlier. He opens the cart to reveal Puss and Donkey crammed inside.

PUSS: Oh! Eh!

DONKEY: Hey man, you wanna get your fine Corinthian footwear and your cat cheeks out of my face? Man, that stinks!

PUSS: Well you don’t exactly smell like a basket of roses.

Shrek looks up at the shelves built into the walls around them. The shelves are filled with different potions.

SHREK: Well, one of these has got to help.

PUSS: Ah, I was just concocting this very plan. Already our minds are becoming one.

DONKEY: Whoa, whoa, whoa now. Listen, if we need an expert on licking ourselves, we’ll give you a call. Shrek, this is a bad idea.

SHREK: Look. Make yourself useful and go keep watch. Puss, do you think you could get to those on top?

PUSS: No problema, boss. In one of my nine lives I was the great cat burglar of Santiago de Compostela! (laughs)

DONKEY: Shrek, are you off your nut?

SHREK: Donkey, keep watch.

DONKEY: Keep watch? Yeah, Imma keep watch. I’ll watch that wicked witch come and whammy zammy a world of hurt all up your backside. I'm gonna laugh, too. I’ll be giggling to myself.

Donkey walks back the door to stand on guard. Puss climbs up the shelves and stops at a glowing green vial.

SHREK: What do you see?

PUSS: "Toad Stool Softener"?

DONKEY: Oh yeah, right, I’m sure a nice BM is the perfect solution for marital problems!

Puss continues to climb up and stop every so often.

PUSS: "Elfa Seltzer"?

SHREK: Uh-uh.

PUSS: "Hex Lax"?

SHREK: No! Try "handsome."

PUSS: Sorry. No handsome.

Puss stops at a row of potions kept behind a glass display case.

PUSS: Hey! How about "Happily Ever After"?

SHREK: Well, what does it do?

PUSS: It says "Beauty Divine."

DONKEY: You know in some cultures, donkeys are revered as the wisest of all creatures. Especially us talking ones.

Donkey, not paying attention to the door, doesn't notice a worker and Jerome staring at them.

SHREK: [gasps] Donkey!

Donkey looks back and Jerome and the worker run off. Donkey runs back to Shrek and the door shuts.

SHREK: That’ll have to do. We’ve got company!

Puss uses his claw to cut a hole in the glass.

DONKEY: Can we get on with this?

Puss tries to pull out the Happily Ever After potion, but the hole he made is just too small for it to fit.

SHREK: Hurry!

Puss tries to force the potion through and the glass starts to crack. It shatters as the bottle is pulled out, sending Puss flying. Donkey manage to catch the falling potion with his mouth.

SHREK: Nice catch, Donkey!

Puss lands on his feet.

PUSS: Finally! A good use for your mouth.

An alarm sounds and red lights flash. At the doorway, a metal gate starts to lower down.

SHREK: Come on!

Shrek grabs Donkey and Puss and diver under the gate. Puss reaches back for his hat just before the gate slams down. A group of elves run in with rapid-fire crossbows and shoot at them. Shrek, still carrying Donkey and Puss, dodges the arrows and jumps onto a conveyer belt. They continue to dodge the arrows as they climb over various wooden machinery. Shrek tips over a giant cauldron, filled with a potion, and the substance spills onto the floor. The elves run away as Shrek jumps up and grabs onto a pulley system that leads back to the entrance. The potion splashes over a cage of two geese and turns them into ballerinas. Two workers are caught in it and are transformed into a clock and a candelabra. Another group of fleeing elves are turned into doves. Shrek, Donkey, and Puss reach the end of the room and jump onto the catwalk. Later, the potion has dried up and Fairy Godmother shouts at the doves.

GODMOTHER: I don’t care whose fault it is. Just get this place cleaned up!

DOVES: Yes, Godmother.

GODMOTHER: And somebody bring me something deep fried and smothered in chocolate!

Prince Charming comes bursting through the doors behind her.

CHARMING: Mother!

GODMOTHER: Charming. Sweetheart. Well This isn’t a good time, pumpkin. Mama’s working.

CHARMING: Whoa, what happened here?

GODMOTHER: The ogre, that’s what!

CHARMING: What?! Where is he, Mom?

Charming pulls his sword out from its sheath and starts swinging it around.

CHARMING: I shall rend his head from his shoulders! I will smite him where he stands! He will rue the very day he stole my kingdom from me!

Bird poop lands on his shoulder.

CHARMING: Oh, put it away, Junior! You’re still going to be king. We’ll just have to come up with something smarter.

Jerome, who is now a dove, flies over carrying a clipboard.

JEROME: Pardon. Um…e-everything is accounted for, Fairy Godmother. Except for one potion.

Godmother takes a look at the clipboard.

GODMOTHER: What? Oh… I do believe we can make this work to our advantage.

FOREST - DAY

Shrek, Donkey, and Puss are walking through a clearing. Shrek reads the label on the potion.

SHREK: "Happily Ever After Potion. Maximum strength. For you and your true love. If one of you drinks this, you both will be fine. Happiness, comfort and beauty divine."

DONKEY: You both will be fine?

SHREK: I guess it means it’ll affect Fiona, too.

Shrek pops the cork out from the bottle.

DONKEY: Hey, man, this don’t feel right. My donkey senses are tingling all over. So why don't you just drop that jug o’ voodoo and let’s get out of here.

SHREK: It says, "Beauty Divine." How bad can it be?

Shrek sniffs the potion and sneezes mucus onto a mushroom. The mucus is sparkling blue.

DONKEY: Aha! See, you’re allergic to that stuff. You’re gonna have a reaction. And if you think that I’ll be smearing VapoRub all over your chest, think again!

PUSS: Boss, just in case there is something wrong with the potion… allow me to take the first sip. It would be an honor to lay my life on the line for you.

DONKEY: Oh, no, no. I don’t think so. If there's gonna be any animal testing, I’m gonna do it. That’s the best friend’s job. Now give me that bottle.

Donkey grabs the bottle with his mouth and jugs some of it down. Shrek grabs the bottle.

SHREK: How do you feel?

DONKEY: Well I don’t feel any different. I look any different?

PUSS: You still look like an ass to me.

SHREK: Maybe it doesn’t work on donkeys. Well, here’s to us, Fiona.

DONKEY: Shrek? You drink that, there’s no going back.

SHREK: I know.

DONKEY: But, no more wallowing in the mud?

SHREK: I know.

DONKEY: No more itchy butt crack?

SHREK: I know!

DONKEY: But you love being an ogre!

SHREK: I know! (sighs) But I love Fiona more.

DONKEY: Shrek, no! Wait!

Shrek drinks the rest of the potion. His stomach starts rumbling, and Puss and Donkey take cover behind a fallen log. Shrek lets out a loud fart and the two come out from cover.

DONKEY: Ooh, got to be… I think you grabbed the "Farty Ever After" potion.

PUSS: Maybe it’s a dud.

SHREK: Or maybe Fiona and I were never meant to be.

Suddenly, thunder sounds and gray clouds move in above them.

DONKEY: Uh-oh. What did I tell you? I think I feel something coming on. I don’t want to die. I don’t want to die. I don’t want to die!

It starts raining on the three.

DONKEY: Oh, sweet sister, mother of mercy. I’m melting! I’m melting!

SHREK: It’s just the rain, Donkey.

DONKEY: [chuckles] Oh.

As they walk off, they don't notice the mushroom Shrek sneezed on transform into a rose. They eventually come across an abandoned barn in the forest. Shrek opens the gates and they head inside.

EXT. - ABANDONED BARN

Shrek looks out from the barn, solemnly starting at Far Far Away way off in the distance. Shrek looks down at Donkey and pats his head.

DONKEY: Shrek, don’t worry. Things seem bad because it’s dark and rainy and Fiona’s father hired a sleazy hitman to whack you.

Puss hisses at Donkey.

DONKEY: lt’ll be better in the morning. You’ll see. (singing) The sun’ll come out…tomorrow. [yawns] Bet your bottom…

SHREK: Bet my bottom?

DONKEY: I’m coming, Elizabeth!

Donkey rears back and falls to the floor unconscious.

SHREK: Donkey? Are you all right?

PUSS: Hey, boss. Let’s shave him.

SHREK: D-Donkey?..

Shrek passes out and falls down. Puss screams.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE

Harold and Lillian are sat by a fireplace when Fiona walks in.

HAROLD: There you are! We missed you at dinner.

LILLIAN: What is it, darling?

FIONA: Dad…I’ve been thinking about what you said. And I’m going to set things right.

HAROLD: Ah! Excellent! That’s my girl.

FIONA: It was a mistake to bring Shrek here. I’m going to go out and find him. And then we're gonna go back to the swamp where we belong.

Fiona walks out of the room and grabs her suitcase. Harold and Lillian follow her.

LILLIAN: Fiona, please!

HAROLD: Let’s not be rash, darling. You can’t go anywhere right now.

Fiona pushes open the front doors of the palace and looks out at the rain. Before she can step forward, she passes out and falls to the floor.

HAROLD: Fiona...

LILLIAN: Fiona!

Harold and Lillian run over to Fiona and kneel over her.

INT. - ABANDONED BARN

Posed similarly, Puss runs over to Shrek and Donkey's unconscious bodies. He lies down beside them.

EXT. - ABANDONED BARN

We see a bright, sparkling purple light emit from the barn. It fades.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S CHILDHOOD ROOM.

Harold and Lillian tend to Fiona, who they have tucked into bed. Lillian walks off, and Harold follows after lingering for a few moments.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S CHILDHOOD ROOM.

A similar bright light flashes in Fiona's room before fading.

INT. - ABANDONED BARN. MORNING.

Eyes slowly open. Women can be heard whispering.

MAIDEN #2: Look look look, I told you he was here. Look at him! Look at him!

MAIDEN #1: Shh! Quiet!

MAIDEN #2: Look at him!

Shrek groans. A woman laying down, staring at him, comes into focus.

JILL: Good morning, sleepyhead.

Shrek shouts and sits up. Three women are sitting beside him, and one of them is holding Puss in her arms.

JILL & MAIDENS: Good morning!

MAIDEN #2: We love your kitty!

SHREK: Oww…my head…

JILL: Here, I fetched a pail of water.

SHREK: Thanks.

Shrek looks at down at his hands and gasps, noticing they are now human hands. He grabs the pail of water and looks at his reflection. He is now a handsome, human man. He gasps and drops the pail onto the floor. He starts to feel his new body.

SHREK: Oh!.. A cute, button nose? Thick, wavy locks? Taut, round buttocks?! I’m… I’m…

Jill and Maiden #1 latch onto Shrek.

JILL: Gorgeous!

MAIDEN #1: I’ll say.

JILL: I’m Jill. What’s your name?

SHREK: Um… Shrek.

JILL: "Shrek"? Wow...are you from Europe?

MAIDEN #1: You’re so tense!

JILL: I want to rub his shoulders.

MAIDEN #1: I got it covered, thanks.

Maiden #2 joins in.

MAIDEN #2: I don’t have anything to rub!

JILL: Well, get in line.

SHREK: Have you ladies seen my donkey?

DONKEY: Who are you calling donkey?!

Donkey stands in the doorway. He is now a white stallion.

SHREK: Donkey? You’re a--

DONKEY: A stallion, baby! I can whinny! [whinnies] I can count!

Donkey starts to trot around outside.

DONKEY: Look at me, Shrek! I’m...trotting! That’s some quality potion! What’s in that stuff?

PUSS: "Oh, don’t take the potion, Mr. Boss, it’s very bad." Pah!

Puss picks up the discarded potion bottle and reads the label.

PUSS: "Warning: Side effects may include burning, itching, oozing, weeping. Not intended for heart patients or those with… nervous disorders."

DONKEY: I’m trotting, I’m trotting in place! Yeah!

Shrek, Puss, and the maidens all stare at Donkey.

DONKEY: What?

PUSS: Señor!

Puss reads the rest of the label.

PUSS: "To make the effects of this potion permanent, the drinker must obtain his true love’s kiss by midnight."

Shrek grabs the potion to read it for himself.

SHREK: Midnight?! Why is it always midnight?

MAIDEN #1: Oh! Pick me! I’ll be your true love!

JILL: I’ll be your true love.

MAIDEN #2: I’ll be true!...enough.

SHREK: Look, ladies, I already have a true love.

The maidens start puckering their lips and Shrek backs away.

SHREK: Look! Ladies! I already have a true love.

The woman groan in disappointment.

PUSS: And take it from me, Boss. You are going to have one satisfied Princess.

DONKEY: And let’s face it. You are a lot easier on the eyes. But inside you’re the still same old, mean, salty…

SHREK: Easy--

DONKEY: …cantankerous, stinky...

SHREK: Alright then--

DONKEY: …foul, angry ogre you always been.

SHREK: And you’re still the same annoying donkey.

DONKEY: Yeah.

SHREK: Well…look out, princess. Here comes the new me!

Shrek's pants fall down to his ankles. His clothes are much too big for him now.

DONKEY: First things first, we need to get you out of those clothes.

The women all gasp in excitement.

FOREST. MORNING.

A carriage is traveling on a road through the forest. Shrek, Donkey, and Puss are hidden further up the road.

SHREK: Ready?

DONKEY: Ready!

The carriage hits a bump and Donkey screams behind them. A passenger inside the carriage leans out his head.

NOBLEMAN: Driver, stop!

The nobleman gets out to examine Donkey, who is writhing on the ground.

DONKEY: Oh, God! Help me, please! My racing days are over! I’m blind! I’m blind! Tell the truth, will I ever play the violin again?

NOBLEMAN: Oh, you poor creature! Is there anything I can do for you?

DONKEY: Well, I guess there is one thing...

Donkey drops the act and Puss jumps out from behind him, pointing his sword at the nobleman.

PUSS: Take off the powdered wig and step away from your drawers!

Shrek puts on the nobleman's powdered wig and his clothes, which are much too small for him.

PUSS: Not bad.

DONKEY: Not bad at all.

After a moment of silence, the two burst out laughing. The nobleman's son peeks out from inside the carriage.

NOBLEMAN'S SON: Father? Is everything all right, Father?

The son gets a look at the scene and tries to hide back inside. Shrek takes his clothes, leaving both the nobleman and his son stranded in their undergarments. Shrek saddles up on Donkey's back with Puss.

SHREK: Thank you, gentlemen! Someday, I will repay you! Unless, of course, I can't find you or if I forget.

Donkey whinnies and rears back onto his hind legs, knocking Puss off. Donkey sprints off, leaving Puss muttering angrily in Spanish.

KINGDOM OF FAR FAR AWAY. DAY.

Shrek and Puss are riding Donkey through the streets of Far Far Away. Shrek looks uneasy as people in the streets stop and stare. Shrek cautiously waves at an angry mob, who to his surprise, smile and wave back at him. Shrek admires the new "him" in the mirror and waves at three noblewomen ogling at him. Donkey kicks into a faster pace and towards the Far Far Away Palace.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. DAY.

They stop at the foot of the stairs leading up to the palace doors. Two guards stand by the stairs.

GUARD: Halt!

SHREK: Tell Princess Fiona her husband, Sir Shrek, is here to see her.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S CHILDHOOD ROOM.

Fiona gest out of bed and walks over to the mirror to wash her face. As she takes the towel away from her face, she sees her reflection in the mirror; she is a human again. She screams and Shrek hears her from outside.

SHREK: Fiona!

FIONA: Shrek?

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE.

Shrek runs inside the palace to find Fiona. Fiona runs out of her room to do the same. The two almost cross each other's pass.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S CHILDHOOD ROOM.

Shrek runs into Fiona's room and sees a cloaked figure hovering by the window.

SHREK: Fiona?

The figure takes off the cloak and reveals themselves to be Fairy Godmother.

GODMOTHER: Hello, handsome.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE.

Fiona runs outside and down the stairs, not recognizing Donkey in his new form.

FIONA: Shrek!

DONKEY: Princess!

FIONA: Donkey?..

DONKEY: Wow! That potion worked on you too, huh?

FIONA: What potion?

DONKEY: Oh its kind of a long story but, see, Shrek and I took some magic potion. And well, now...we’re sexy!

Fiona leans over to see Puss sitting on Donkey's back.

FIONA: Shrek?..

PUSS: For you, baby… I could be.

DONKEY: Yeah, you wish.

FIONA: Donkey, where is Shrek?

DONKEY: He just went inside looking for you.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE.

Fiona runs back inside and yells loudly.

FIONA: Shrek!

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S CHILDHOOD ROOM.

SHREK: Fiona! Fiona!

Shrek runs for the door, but Godmother uses her magic to close it. One of the talking pieces of furniture from before moves in his way.

FURNITURE: You want to dance, pretty boy?

Shrek tries to run out to the balcony but Godmother shuts those doors as well.

GODMOTHER: Are you going so soon? Don’t you want to see your wife?

Godmother gestures to the window and steps aside.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE.

Elsewhere in the palace, Fiona stops at the top of some stairs. She hears a voice come from a room to her right.

CHARMING: Fiona?

Fiona steps toward the voice and sees Prince Charming standing by a balcony. He is wearing noble clothes that somewhat resemble Shrek's usual getup.

FIONA: Shrek?

CHARMING: Aye, Fiona. It is me.

FIONA: What happened to your voice?

CHARMING: Uhh...the potion changed a lot of things, Fiona. But not the way I feel about you.

Just as Charming takes Fiona's hand, Harold and Lillian come walking in.

LILLIAN: Fiona?

HAROLD: Charming?!

CHARMING: Ah--do you think so? [laughs] Dad. I was so hoping you would approve.

LILLIAN: Um… Who are you?

CHARMING: Mom, it’s me, Shrek. I know you never get a second chance at a first impression, but, well, what do you think?

Charming pulls Fiona in closer, who is still looking at him with suspicion. Neither Harold nor Lillian appear to be approving. Charming hugs Fiona, who hesitantly obliges him. Shrek is shouting from across the other side of the palace in Fiona's room. The glass window muffles his voice and none of them hear him.

SHREK: Fiona! Fiona!

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. FIONA'S CHILDHOOD ROOM.

SHREK: Fiona! Fiona!

GODMOTHER: Fiona, Fiona! Ho-ho-ho-oh, shoot! I don’t think they can hear us, pigeon.

Shrek stares out at the coupe and sighs.

GODMOTHER: Don’t you think you’ve already messed her life up enough?

SHREK: I just wanted her to be happy.

GODMOTHER: And now she can be. Oh, sweetheart. She’s finally found the prince of her dreams.

SHREK: But look at me. Look what I’ve done for her.

GODMOTHER: It’s time you stop living in a fairy tale, Shrek. She’s a princess, and you’re an ogre. That’s something no amount of potion will ever change.

Shrek takes another look out the window and sees Fiona, Charming, Lillian, and Harold head inside from the balcony.

SHREK: But…I love her.

GODMOTHER: If you really love her…you’ll let her go.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE.

Shrek comes from out of the palace, angrily barging down the stairs.

DONKEY: Shrek?

PUSS: Señor?

Shrek walks by without looking at them.

DONKEY: Hey, what’s going on? Where are you going?

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE.

Charming and Fiona walk down the hallway away from Harold and Lillian. Fiona looks back and gives Harold a confused look before Charming nudges her closer.

LILLIAN: You wouldn’t have had anything to do with this...would you, Harold?

Harold looks down with a guilty look on his face.

EXT. - KINGDOM OF FAR FAR AWAY.

Shrek walks through the streets with his head bowed down. Donkey and Puss follow him.

INT. - POISON APPLE.

Captain Hook is playing the piano and singing. Shrek, Donkey, and Puss are sitting at the bar with their drinks. Doris sets a bottle of milk on the table.

DORIS: There you go, boys.

PUSS: Just leave the bottle, Doris.

DORIS: Hey. Why the long face?

SHREK: It was all just a stupid mistake. I never should have rescued her from that tower in the first place.

Puss laps up the milk in his cup and slams it down.

PUSS: I hate Mondays.

DONKEY: I can’t believe you’d walk away from the best thing that ever happened to you.

SHREK: What choice do I have? She loves that pretty boy, Prince Charming.

DONKEY: Aww, come on. Is he really that good-looking?

DORIS: Are you kidding? He’s gorgeous! He has a face that looks like it was carved by angels.

PUSS: Oh. He sounds dreamy.

SHREK: You know, shockingly, this isn’t making me feel any better. Look, guys. It’s for the best. Mom and Dad approve, and Fiona gets the man she’s always dreamed of. Everybody wins.

Behind them, Harold enters inside wearing his cloak.

DONKEY: Except for you. I don’t get it, Shrek. You love Fiona.

SHREK: Aye. And that’s why I have to let her go.

HAROLD: Umm...excuse me, is she here?

Shrek looks up to see the back of Harold who is talking with Doris.

DORIS: She’s, uh… in the back.

Harold walks up to a door in the back and sees Fairy Godmother's men from before standing guard.

HAROLD: Oh, hello again. Heh...

He goes through the doors.

INT. - POISON APPLE. BACK ROOM.

Fairy Godmother and Charming stand waiting inside the room.

HAROLD: Fairy Godmother. Charming.

GODMOTHER: Ugh, you’d better have a good reason for dragging us down here, Harold.

HAROLD: Well, I’m afraid Fiona isn’t really…warming up to Prince Charming.

CHARMING: Umm, F-Y-I, not my fault.

GODMOTHER: Oh no, no, of course it’s not, dear.

CHARMING: I mean, how charming can I be when I have to pretend I’m that dreadful ogre?

HAROLD: No, no, it’s nobody’s fault. Perhaps it’s best if we just call the whole thing off, okay?

GODMOTHER & CHARMING: What?!

HAROLD: I mean you can’t force someone to fall in love!

GODMOTHER: Oh I beg to differ. I do it all the time.

Fairy Godmother pulls out a red vial and hands it to Harold. Shrek is listening in from the window, outside and out of sight.

GODMOTHER: Have Fiona drink this and she’ll fall in love with the first man she kisses, which will be Charming.

HAROLD: Umm… no.

GODMOTHER: What did you say?

HAROLD: I...I...I can’t. I...I won’t do it.

GODMOTHER: Oh, yes, you will. If you remember, I helped you with your happily ever after. And I can take it away just as easily.

Fairy Godmother sticks her wand in Harold's face and it begins to glow.

GODMOTHER: Is that what you want? Is it?

HAROLD: No.

GODMOTHER: Good boy. Now, we have to go. I need to do Charming’s hair before the ball. He’s hopeless. Y'know he’s all high in the front, he can never get to the back. You always need someone to do the back of your hair.

CHARMING: Oh! Thank you, mother.

DONKEY: Mother?!

The three look out the window to see Shrek, Donkey, and Puss standing at the window.

SHREK: Um… Mary! A talking horse!

GODMOTHER: The ogre!

EXT. - THE POISON APPLE. DAY.

Outside by the entrance, a pair of guards are interrogating the Headless Horseman. Shrek and Puss ride Donkey and sprint past them. Godmother comes flying after them.

GODMOTHER: Stop them! Thieves! Bandits! Stop them!

Godmother tries to zap them as the guards start running after them.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. EVENING.

Fireworks go off in the evening sky. The red carpet is rolled out in front of the palace and festivities are set up. Crowds of people are gathered by the red carpet as celebrities walk down it.

ANNOUNCER: Well, the abs are fab and it’s gluteus to the maximus here at tonight’s Far, Far Away Royal Ball Blowout! The coaches are lined up as the cream of the crop pours out of them like Miss Muffet’s curds and whey!

Joan Rivers talks to the camera with loudspeaker in hand.

JOAN: Everyone who’s anyone has turned out to honor Princess Fiona and Prince Shrek and, oh my, the outfits look gorgeous! Look! Hansel and Gretel!

Hansel and Gretel skip down the carpet hand in hand, tossing bread crumbs along their path.

JOAN: What the heck are the crumbs for? And right behind them, Tom Thumb and Thumbelina! Oh, aren’t they adorable!

The tiny Tom Thumb and Thumbelina are mistakenly swept up by a man sweeping the crumbs.

JOAN: Here comes Sleeping Beauty!

The carriage door is opened and Sleeping Beauty falls onto the carpet, still sleeping.

JOAN: Oh, tired old thing...who’s this? Who’s this?! Who is this?

Fairy Godmother's pink carriage descends.

JOAN: Oh. It’s the one, it’s the only…it’s the Fairy Godmother!

Fairy Godmother hovers her way across the red carpet.

GODMOTHER: Hello, Far, Far Away! Can I get a "whoop-whoop"?

The crowd whoops.

GODMOTHER: May all your endings be happy and…well, you know the rest!

INT. - THE SWAMP. SHREK'S HOME.

Pinocchio, Ginny, Wolf, the Three Little Pigs, and the Three Blind Mice are using the Magic Mirror as a TV. They are watching footage of the event as it cuts to a commercial break.

MIRROR: We’ll be right back with the Royal Far Far Away Ball after these messages.

GINGY: I hate these ball shows! They bore me to tears. Flip over to Wheel Of Torture.

PINOCCHIO: I’m not flipping anywhere, sir, until I see Shrek and Fiona.

GINGY: Whizzes on you guys! Hey, mice, pass me a buffalo wing.

The mice start moving their canes around, unaware that the plate of chicken wings is right next to them.

GINGY: No no, to your left. Your left!

A chicken wing flies up and lands inside the rancid fish bowl.

MIRROR: Tonight on "K.N.I.G.H.T.S."…

GINGY: Ah! Now here’s a good show!

Footage plays of Shrek, Donkey, and Puss being chased by several patrols of knights.

KNIGHT: We got a white bronco heading east into the forest. Requesting backup.

NARRATOR: It's time for the men in steel to teach these madcap mammals their "devil may mare" attitudes just won't fly!

The chase ends in the streets of Far Far Away. Two knights seize Shrek and three more point their crossbows at him.

SHREK: Alright, alright! Let me go!

Three knights are restraining Donkey.

DONKEY: Let me go! Why are you grabbing me?! OW!! Police brutality!! POLICE BRUTALITY!!!

KNIGHT: Come on!

SHREK: I have to talk to Princess Fiona!

KNIGHT: We warned you!

A knight runs up to Shrek with pepper shaker and sprays it into his eyes.

SHREK: Ow! Ow!

NARRATOR: Will they get away with it? Or did someone let the cat out of the bag?

PUSS: You capitalist pig dogs!

Puss pounces on a knight who grabs him. Two knights restrain him with an animal capture device and one lifts a dime bag off of him. He sniffs it and shows the camera.

KNIGHT: Catnip!

PUSS: That’s, uh, not mine.

The knights proceed to throw Shrek, Donkey, and Puss into the back of a metal wagon.

SHREK: Hold on! Alright! Find Princess Fiona!

DONKEY: I’m a donkey!

The knights shut the doors of the van. Shrek yells through the bars of the door.

SHREK: Tell her, Shrek--I’m her husband, Shrek! Ow!

The show freezes frame on Shrek's face as a knight sprays him with a pepper shaker again.

NARRATOR: K.N.I.G.H.T.S.!

GINGY: Quick! Rewind it!

The Mirror rewinds the footage.

SHREK: Shrek--I’m her husband, Shrek! Ow!

The playback stops. Everyone on the couch sits with their mouths wide open.

INT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. NIGHT.

Harold is pouring tea into two cups on a tray. He reluctantly pours the contents of the Love Potion into one of the cups. Out from the cup comes a magical dust in the shape of heart, which then dissipates. He pushes open a door, carrying the tray of tea, and sees Fiona staring out of a window.

HAROLD: Darling? Ah. I thought I might find you here. How about a nice hot cup of tea before the ball?

FIONA: (sighs) I’m not going.

HAROLD: But, but, but the...the whole kingdom’s turned out to celebrate your marriage.

FIONA: There’s just one problem. That’s not my husband. I mean, look at him.

Fiona gestures out the window at Prince Charming on the red carpet, who is playing up to the crowd.

HAROLD: Yes, he is a bit...different, but people change for the ones they love. You’d be surprised how much I changed for your mother.

Harold sets the tray down on the window sill.

FIONA: Change? He’s completely lost his mind!

HAROLD: Darling, why not come down to the ball and give him another chance? I mean, you might find you like this new Shrek.

FIONA: But it’s the old one I fell in love with, Dad. I’d give anything to have him back.

Fiona reaches for one of the tea cups but Harold quickly grabs it instead.

HAROLD: Uh, darling. That’s mine. Decaf. O-otherwise I’m up all night.

Fiona takes a sip from the other cup and smiles.

FIONA: Thanks.

Harold smiles back but looks distressed.

INT. - JAIL TOWER. NIGHT.

A bridge from the main land connects to an island. On the island is a massive, stone prison with a giant tower. Shrek, Donkey, and Puss are in a prison cell. Chains dangle from the ceiling which attach to their shackles, keeping them suspended above the floor.

DONKEY: I gotta get out of here! You can’t lock us up like this! Let me go! Hey, what about my Miranda Rights? You’re supposed to say, I have the right to remain silent.! Nobody said I have the right to remain silent!

SHREK: Donkey, you have the right to remain silent! What you lack is the capacity!

PUSS: I must hold on before I, too, go totally mad.

PINOCCHIO: Shrek? Donkey?

Staring down from above through a grate is Pinocchio, Ginny, Wolf, the Three Little Pigs, and the Three Blind Mice.

PUSS: Too late.

SHREK: Gingy! Pinocchio! Get us out of here!

Dynamite sticks are rigged to the grate. One of the mice carries the a lit match to light the fuse, but falls through the grate.

BLIND MOUSE: Oh…

The mouse lands with a thud. The Three Little Pigs shake their heads and light the match themselves.

LITTLE PIG: Fire in ze hole!

The dynamites' explosion blows off the grate. Pinocchio, with key in hand, jumps and the pigs lowers down by his strings. Pinocchio tangles himself up in his strings after flipping and posing on the way down. Gingy groans and slides down the string.

GINGY: Look out below!

SHREK: Quick! Tell a lie!

PINOCCHIO: What should I say?

GINGY: Anything, but quick!

DONKEY: Say something crazy like "I’m wearing ladies’ underwear!"

PINOCCHIO: I'm...I am wearing ladies’ underwear.

They wait for Pinocchio's nose to grow but nothing happens.

SHREK: Heh...are you?

PINOCCHIO: I most certainly am not!

His nose grows a bit.

DONKEY: It looks like you most certainly am are!

PINOCCHIO: I am not!

His nose grows even further.

PUSS: What kind?

GINGY: It’s a thong!

Gingy pulls at his pink thong and lets it slap back.

PINOCCHIO: Oww! They’re briefs!

Gingy takes the key and runs across Pinocchio's nose as it continues to grow with each denial.

GINGY: Are not!

PINOCCHIO: Are too!

GINGY: Are not!

PINOCCHIO: Are too!

Gingy eventually reaches Shrek and uses the key to free Shrek, Donkey, and Puss.

GINGY: Here we go. Hang tight!

DONKEY: Wait, wait, wait! Ow! Ow! Hey, hey, hey! Ow!

The three are dropped down onto the floor of the cell. Shrek looks out the window, seeing the Far Far Away Palace. Shrek hears a muffled voice.

BLIND MOUSE: Excuse me?

SHREK: What?.. Puss!

He sees the mouse's tail sticking out from Puss' mouth.

BLIND MOUSE: Pardon me, would you mind letting me go?

Puss spits out the mouse.

PUSS: Sorry, boss.

SHREK: Quit messing around! We’ve got to stop that kiss!

DONKEY: I thought you was going to let her go.

SHREK: I was, but I can’t let them do this to Fiona!

DONKEY: Boom! That’s what I like to hear. Look who’s finally coming around!

PUSS: But it’s impossible! We’ll never get in. The castle is guarded and there is a moat and everything!

GINGY: Well, folks, it looks like we’re up chocolate creek without a Popsicle stick.

Shrek stares thoughtfully at Gingy.

GINGY: What?

SHREK: Do you still know the Muffin Man?

GINGY: Well, sure! He’s down on Drury Lane. Why?

SHREK: Because we’re gonna need flour. Lots and lots of flour.

EXT. - DRURY LANE. NIGHT.

Shrek knocks on the front door of a bakery. The Muffin Man opens the door and happily greets Gingy, who is standing on Shrek's shoulder.

MUFFIN MAN: Gingy!

GINGY: Fire up the ovens, Muffin Man! We’ve got a big order to fill!

An evil chuckle is heard from inside the bakery as lightning strikes in the sky.

GINGY: It’s alive!

CITY OF FAR FAR AWAY. NIGHT.

A couple is out on a table drinking tea when their cups begin to shake. In the city, palm trees not too far off fall down one after the other. Donkey comes chasing through with Puss, Pinocchio, Wolf, the Pigs, and the Mice on his back.

DONKEY: Run, run, run, as fast you can!

Citizens of the kingdom scream as the feet of a giant gingerbread man stomp through the streets. His name is Mongo, and Shrek and Gingy are riding on his shoulders.

GINGY: Go, baby, go!

SHREK: There it is, Mongo! To the castle!

Shrek points towards the Far Far Away Palace. Mongo instead grabs a giant coffee mug on top of a Farbucks Coffee building.

SHREK: No, you great stupid pastry! Come on!

Customers come running out of the building. Mongo tries to drink from the giant cup, but drops it after nothing comes out of it.

DONKEY: Mongo! Down here! Look at the pony!

Mongo starts to giggle and follow Donkey.

DONKEY: That’s right! Follow the pretty pony! Pretty pony wants to play at the castle!

MONGO: Oooh, pretty pony.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. COURTYARD.

Harold walks with Fiona in arm and gives her off to Prince Charming. An audience gathered out on the ballroom floor cheers as Charming waves.

ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen! Presenting Princess Fiona and her new husband, Prince Shrek!

The crowd applauds and Lillian claps along. Fiona has her hand on Charming's arm as they walk down the steps. Charming continues to wave and blow kisses.

FIONA: Shrek, what are you doing?

CHARMING: I’m just playing the part, Fiona.

FIONA: Is that glitter on your lips?

CHARMING: Mmm, cherry flavored. Want a taste?

FIONA: Ugh! What is with you?

Fiona lets go and starts to walk back up the stairs.

CHARMING: But, Muffin Cake…

Charming shrugs at the Fairy Godmother, who is across the room and by the stage. She goes over to the piano player snapping her fingers.

GODMOTHER: C minor, put it in C minor.

Godmother addresses the crowd and conjures herself a flashy, red dress.

GODMOTHER: Ladies and gentlemen. I’d like to dedicate this song to…Princess Fiona and Prince Shrek.

A spotlight shines on the two and Fiona stops to look back.

CHARMING: Fiona, my Princess. Will you honor me with a dance?

Fiona looks hesitantly at Charming and then back at Godmother. She starts singing the song "Holding Out for a Hero".

GODMOTHER: Where have all the good men gone / And where are all the gods?

Godmother continutes to sing. Fiona looks uncomfortably at the crowd who are all chanting "Dance! Dance!" . Prince Charming holds out his hand and Fiona eventually takes it. They slowly dance on the ballroom floor.

FIONA: Since when do you dance?

CHARMING: Fiona, my dearest, if there’s one thing I know, it’s that love is full of surprises.

GODMOTHER: Late at night I toss and I turn / And I dream of what I need...Hit it!

A band and choir join in and the music kicks into gear.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. OUTER WALLS.

Mongo, Shrek, and Gingy approach the walls surrounding the palace. Surrounding the walls is a deep moat and the drawbridge over it has been pulled up. Guards rush around the top of the walls as the Captain of the Guards shouts orders.

SHREK: All right, big fella! Let’s crash this party!

CAPTAIN: Man the catapults! Ready! Fire!

A guard uses a catapult to launch a fireball right at Mongo's chest,

SHREK: Brace yourselves!

MONGO: Ooh! Purty!

The fireball hits him in the chest and he steps back, nearly stomping on Donkey and the rest of the group.

GINGY: Not the gumdrop button!

The fireball hit him square in the gumdrop. Mongo watches the gumdrop drop to the ground, still on fire, and lets out a Godzilla-esque roar. Mongo kicks the gumdrop back, landing right on top of the catapult and destroying it.

GUARD: Incoming!

DONKEY: Ha-ha! All right!

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. COURTYARD.

Charming and Fiona continue to dance, though she is still uncomfortable. Watching on from the side, Harold is facepalming and Lillian looks at him.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. OUTER WALLS.

Mongo is getting closer to the gate but the guards are shooting more fireballs at him.

SHREK: Go, Mongo! Go!

CAPTAIN: Man the cauldrons!

The guards pour hot, bubbling liquid into a set of machinery,

SHREK: After you, Mongo.

Mongo starts to pull down the drawbridge.

SHREK: That’s it! Heave-ho!

The guards pour down a giant vat of the liquid onto Mongo's head.

SHREK: Watch out!

DONKEY: Shrek!

Mongo rises back up, the foam having formed around his head like a wig.

GUARD: More heat, less foam!

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. COURTYARD.

Godmother continues to sing. Charming is tossing a rose around his mouth.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. OUTER WALLS.

Mongo is trying to pull down the drawbridge again.

SHREK: Heave! Ho!

Shrek looks up as the guards pour down more liquid onto Mongo. This time his arms snap off, still holding open the drawbridge, as the rest of Mongo starts falling back into the moat. Shrek grabs onto one the arms and Gingy jumps back down to Mongo.

GINGY: Nooo…!

Mongo's arms start to crack as the guards try to pull the drawbridge back up. Shrek climbs up and gets through.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. COURTYARD.

Charming spits out the rose, scoops Fiona in his arms, and leans in for a kiss. Fiona grabs the rose and puts it in her mouth, stopping him. They continue to dance.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE.

Shrek swings down the chain to the drawbridge and knocks over the three guards that were pulling on it. He lowers the drawbridge for the rest of the group.

SHREK: [whistles] Come on!

The group cheers. Meanwhile, Gingy is standing on Mongo's face as he sinks into the water.

MONGO: Be...good.

Gingy is scooped up by Puss' sword and into Pinocchio's arms.

GINGY: He needs me! Let me go!

Shrek and Puss ride Donkey up the deserted red carpet and toward the front doors of the palace. Suddenly a group of armed guards show up and block the doorway.

SHREK: Donkey!

Donkey leaps up and over the group of guards and they chase after them. Puss jumps off and Shrek and Donkey halt.

SHREK: Puss!

PUSS: Go! Go! Your lady needs you! Go!

Donkey and Shrek race off as Puss turns to face the guards. He takes off his hat and sheathes his sword.

PUSS: Today, I repay my debt.

Puss puts on his cute, guilty face. The guards stop and lift the visors from the helmets.

GUARDS: Aww…

PUSS: [growling] En garde!

Puss leaps from guard to guard, battling them off with his sword.

EXT. - FAR FAR AWAY PALACE. COURTYARD.

Charming once again leans Fiona down in his arms and tries to kiss her. This time she doesn't resist. But just as they are about to kiss, Shrek and Donkey come bursting through the doors to the courtyard.

SHREK: Stop!

The music comes to a halt. Donkey hurries down the stairs and Shrek jumps off his back.

SHREK: Hey, you! Back away from my wife!

FIONA: Shrek?

The crowd gasps. Harold and Lillian look on, surprised.

GODMOTHER: You couldn’t just go back to your swamp and leave well enough alone.

SHREK: Now!

The Three Little Pigs launch one of themselves at Godmother using a blanket as a slingshot.

Three Little Pigs: Pigs und blanket!

The pig grabs onto Godmother's leg and she tries to shake him off. Shrek swings Pinocchio by his strings and throws him at Godmother.

SHREK: Pinocchio! Get the wand!

PIG #1: I see London! I see France!

PINOCCHIO: Waaaahhh!

Pinocchio misses Godmother and she shoots him with her wand, transforming him into a human boy.

PINOCCHIO: I’m a real boy!

Godmother flings the pig into the open window of some woman. She raises her wand to zap Shrek, but Wolf begins blowing her away with his breath. She drops the wand and another pig grabs it and runs. She chases after him.

DONKEY: Pig!

The pig throws the wand to Donkey.

GINGY: Donkey!

Donkey throws it to Gingy as the Fairy Godmother still tries to grab it. Gingy throws it to the Three Blind Mice who don't catch it. The wand bounces on the ground and activates.

PINOCCHIO: I’m a real boy. Ah!--

The wand's magic hits Pinocchio and he turns back into his puppet self.

PINOCCHIO: Oh...

Shrek and Godmother chase after the wand.

GODMOTHER: That’s mine! That’s mine!

Godmother grabs it but Shrek swipes it out of her hands and into the air. Donkey races to the wand. Puss climbs on top of his head and grabs it.

DONKEY: Pray for mercy, from Puss!...

PUSS: And Donkey!

GODMOTHER: She’s taken the potion! Kiss her now!

Charming runs up to Fiona, grabs her shoulders, and kisses her.

SHREK: No!

Shrek drops to his knees. Harold and Lillian look on with concern. Godmother smiles. Fiona looks at Charming with surprise, and then with affection. Charming puts his hand on Fiona's face, and then she holds his face with both hands.

FIONA: Hi-ya!

Fiona headbutts Charming and he drops to the floor. The crowd gasps. Shrek runs up to Fiona.

SHREK: Fiona.

FIONA: Shrek.

GODMOTHER: Harold! You were supposed to give her the potion!

HAROLD: Well...I guess I gave her the wrong tea.

Charming grabs the wand from Puss and throws it to Godmother.

CHARMING: Mummy!

FIONA: Mummy?

GODMOTHER: I told you!...

Godmother flies up into the air, clutching onto the wand. Shrek and Fiona hold onto each other.

GODMOTHER: Ogres don’t live happily ever after!

Godmother zaps her wand at Shrek and Fiona. Shrek pushes Fiona out of the way and to the ground. Harold runs over to them.

LILLIAN: Harold!

FIONA: Shrek!

Harold leaps in front of Shrek and gets hit by the wand's zap. Harold's ceremonial armor chestplate bounces the magical trail back to hit Godmother. She is knocked back but appears to be unscathed.

GODMOTHER: Woo....ha!--

Godmother turns into bubbles. Her glasses and wand drop to the ground. Fiona runs over to Harold's now empty armor and clothes.

FIONA: [gasping] Oh, Dad!

She sobs and Shrek takes her in his arms. Lillian runs over.

PINOCCHIO: Is he…?

GINGY: Yup.

A frog ribbit is heard from inside the chestplate.

GINGY: He croaked.

A frog comes crawling out from inside the chestplate.

LILLIAN: Harold?

FIONA: Dad?

HAROLD: I’d hoped you’d never see me like this.

DONKEY: Hey! And he gave you a hard time!

SHREK: Donkey!

HAROLD: No, no, he’s right. I’m sorry. To both of you. I only wanted what was best for Fiona. But I can see now… she already has it. Shrek, Fiona…will you accept an old frog’s apologies… and my blessing?

LILLIAN: Harold?

HAROLD: I’m sorry, Lillian. I just wish I could be the man you deserve.

Harold tries to leap away but Lillian catches him.

LILLIAN: You’re more that man today than you ever were… warts and all.

Harold ribbits. The clock chimes.

PUSS: Boss! The Happily Ever After Potion!

SHREK: Midnight! Fiona, is this what you want? To be this way forever?

FIONA: What?

SHREK: Because if you kiss me now…we can stay like this.

FIONA: You’d do that? For me?

SHREK: Yes.

Fiona looks back Lillian and Harold, then back to Shrek.

FIONA: I want what any princess wants. To live happily ever after…

Shrek leans in to kiss Fiona, but she gently stops him with her hand.

FIONA: ...with the ogre I married.

PUSS: Whatever happens, I must not cry! You cannot make me cry!

Puss quietly cries and the clock bells ring.

Shrek and Fiona hold each other's hands as they are engulfed in a magical aura and float into the air. The same happens to Donkey. Donkey begins to transform back into his donkey self.

DONKEY: No. No, no. Aaah! Ow. Oh, no.

He is lowered back to the ground. So are Shrek and Fiona, who are both now ogres. Donkey sighs.

SHREK: [laughs] Hey. You still look like a noble steed to me.

FIONA: [giggles] Now, where were we?

SHREK: Oh. I remember.

Shrek leans Fiona over and they kiss. The crowd claps.

PUSS: Hey! Isn’t we supposed to be having a fiesta?

The crowd cheers and Puss and Donkey take to the stage.

DONKEY: Uno, dos, quatro, hit it! Puss and Donkey, y’all…

Puss and Donkey start singing "Livin' La Vida Loca". The band accompanies them.

DONKEY: She’s into superstitions / Black cats and voodoo dolls...sing it, Puss!

PUSS: I feel a premonition / That girl’s gonna make me fall

DONKEY: Here we go!

The whole crowd is now dancing along.

PUSS: She’s into new sensations / New kicks in the candlelight

DONKEY & PUSS: She’s got a new addiction / For every day and night / She’ll make you take your clothes off / And go dancing in the rain / She’ll make you live her crazy life / But she’ll take away your pain / Like a bullet to your brain / Upside inside out / Living la vida loca

Doris walks up to Charming and tries to kiss him.

DORIS: Hey gorgeous!

Mongo is still fully submerged under the water.

MONGO: Living la vida loca

DONKEY & PUSS: Her lips are devil red / And her skin’s the color of mocha / She will wear you out / Living la vida loca

DONKEY: Oh, she livin’ it loca!

PUSS: Living la vida loca

DONKEY: Say it one more time now!

DONKEY & PUSS: Living la vida loca

PUSS: Hey, Donkey, that’s Spanish!

DONKEY & PUSS: She’ll push and pull you down / Living la vida loca / She will wear you out / Living la vida loca / Living la vida loca / She’ll push and pull you down / Living la vida loca / Her lips are devil red / And her skin’s the color of mocha / She will wear you out / Living la vida loca / Living la vida loca / Living la vida loca / Living la vida loca

The song ends and the end credits roll. The dance floor is empty, except for Shrek and Fiona still slow dancing. Donkey sits on the stage quietly singing.

DONKEY: All by myself / Don’t wanna be / All by myself anymore…

Puss walks up with two women by his side.

PUSS: Amigo, we are off to the Kit-Kat Club. Come on, join us.

DONKEY: Thanks, compadre. I’m… I’m not in the mood.

PUSS: We will cheer you up! Find you a nice....uh, burro!

A dragon roars. Donkey looks up into the sky.

DONKEY: Hey, baby! Woo! Hey, that’s my girl! Yeah! All right!

Dragon lands on the dance floor.

DONKEY: Baby, where you been?

DRAGON: [whimpers]

DONKEY: I’m sorry, too. I should’ve stayed. But Shrek had this thing he had to do and uh--

DRAGON: [groans]

DONKEY: What? Say it one more time. What you talking about? Are you serious?!

In comes flying a small donkey with the wings, scales, and fiery breath of a dragon.

DRONKEY: Da-da!

Five more of the dronkeys come flying in and jump all over Donkey. Dragon blows a cloud in the shape of a heart.

DONKEY: Look at our little mutant babies! I got to get a job.

INT. MEDIEVAL TIMES THEATER - NIGHT
[A familiar beam of light shines down. The beam of light descends onto a stage. Lightning flashes to reveal Prince Charming riding his valiant steed Chauncey across the open plains. The wind blows back his golden mane.]

Prince Charming: Onward, Chauncey! To the highest room of the tallest tower. Where my princess awaits rescue from her handsome Prince Charming.

Lightning cracks. Thunder booms. Charming straddles a wooden hobby horse and gallops in place. A stage hand uses a bellow to blow air into Prince Charming’s face. Another stage hand turns a crank that creates the moving background. In the orchestra, a man uses coconuts to create the sound effects of a galloping horse. Two more stage hands back stage create the cheap sound effects of thunder and lightning. A crudely constructed castle tower sits in front of a cheaply painted backdrop.

The Fairytale Creatures are sitting at a table in the audience.

Gingy: This is worse than Love Letters. I hate dinner theatre.

PINOCCHIO Me too.

Pinocchio’s nose grows as he is caught in the lie.

Prince Charming rides to the base of the tower.

PRINCE CHARMING Whoa there, Chauncey.

He dismounts and sets his hobby horse on the ground. He strikes a dramatic pose.

A Princess leans from a tower window.

ACTRESS Hark! The brave Prince Charming approacheth.

Prince Charming puffs his chest out. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 2.


PRINCE CHARMING Fear not fair maiden. I shall slay the monster that guards you and take my place as rightful King.

An old couple at a table look confused.

OLD LADY (to old man) What did she say?

Prince Charming glares as the bored audience largely ignores him.

A man in a bad ogre costume that resembles Shrek comes onto the stage.

OGRE Grrrrrrr.

The crowd erupts into applause. The Fairytale Creatures cheer.

FAIRYTALE CREATURES (CHEERING) Woooo hoooo!

GINGERBREAD MAN Yeah, Shrek!

At first, Prince Charming is put off by the cheers for the Shrek-like beast. He pulls his sword and confronts the monster.

PRINCE CHARMING Prepare foul beast to enter into a world of pain with which you are not familiar.

He is cut off as a waiter enters with a birthday cake.

WAITER (SINGING) Happy Birthday to thee.

PRINCE CHARMING Do you mind?

Prince Charming hops out of the way when a chair lands on stage. It slides past him and bumps into the tower facade.

GINGERBREAD MAN Do you mind? Boring! Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 3.


The audience laughs. Prince Charming glares at them and then tries to recover. He points his sword at the monster again. The tower facade starts to topple.

PRINCE CHARMING (CLEARS THROAT) Prepare foul beast-

Prince Charming looks over his shoulder and sees the facade falling. He cringes.

The scenery slams against the stage, but Prince Charming is unharmed, perfectly framed in the princesses’ window. The crowd laughs at the embarrassed Prince Charming. He shakes his mangled sword at the audience.

PRINCE CHARMING (shaking his sword again) Someday you’ll be sorry.

HECKLER (O.S.) We already are!

They laugh again. Prince Charming throws down his sword, picks up his hobby horse and exits.

OGRE Grrrrrrr.

The song and the laughter follow Prince Charming backstage.


INT. BACKSTAGE DRESSING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Prince Charming walks through a tunnel backstage that leads to a door. The door has a star with his name written on it. He opens it.


EXT. MEDIEVAL TIMES RESTAURANT - CONTINUOUS

Prince Charming sits at his broken vanity and sobs. His make- shift dressing room is in an alley way next to the theater.

Horses whinny as a carriage passes by. The castle of Far Far Away can be seen on the hill in the background. Prince Charming breaks down and cries.

He looks up and sees a picture of the Fairy Godmother taped to the vanity. "Don’t stop believing! Mommy’s Little Angel" is written on the picture. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 4.


PRINCE CHARMING (HEAVY SOBS) Oh mommy.

He weeps again and then looks back at the picture. A determined change grows across his face.

PRINCE CHARMING Oh, you’re right. I can’t let this happen. I can’t.

Prince Charming looks at the castle on the hill. His expression hardens. He stands and faces the castle. He holds his chin up high.

PRINCE CHARMING I am the rightful King of Far Far Away and I promise you this mother. I will restore dignity to my throne.

A big gust of wind blows a newspaper page across his face. He peels it off and looks at the headline. His eyes tense and narrow.

PRINCE CHARMING (CONT’D) And this time, no one will stand in my way.

In the newspaper is a picture of Shrek and Fiona waving to a crowd.

Prince Charming crumples up the newspaper in his fists.


EXT. CASTLE - MORNING

The camera booms down from the Far Far Away sign. The sun rises and the birds sing.


INT. SHREK AND FIONA’S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The sun shines through the bedroom window as the camera pans over to Shrek and Fiona waking up.

SHREK Good morning.

FIONA Good morning. (DREAMY) Oh… morning breath… Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 5.


Shrek breathes in and smiles.

SHREK (DREAMY) I know. Isn’t it wonderful?

The bedroom doors fly open and Donkey and the Dronkeys rush in. The Dronkeys head right for Shrek and Fiona. Shrek cowers beneath the bedclothes.

DONKEY (SINGING) "Good morning, good morning."

Shrek sinks further into the blankets as the Dronkeys exuberantly lick him. Fiona is amused.

Donkey starts to sing "Good Morning" from Singin’ in the Rain as he enters the room.

DONKEY (SINGING) "The sun is shining through. Good morning, good morning." (coming closer and closer) (TO FIONA) "To you." (TO SHREK) "And you." (TO DRONKEY) And you.

The Dronkeys fly out of the room, knocking down everything in their path.

DONKEY Oh, they grow up so fast.

[Shrek, greatly annoyed, lifts his hand and snuffs out a little fire on the bed left behind by the Dronkeys.]

SHREK Not fast enough.

Puss leaps onto the bed.

PUSS Okay. You have a very full day filling in for the King and Queen. There are several functions that require your attendance, sir. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 6.


SHREK Great. Let’s get started.

Shrek immediately pulls the covers up over his head and starts to snore.

DONKEY C’mon, lazy bones, time to get movin’.

Donkey yanks the sheets off of Fiona and Shrek. He is surprised to see Shrek’s bare legs.

DONKEY Aaahhh! You know you really need to get yourself a pair of jammies.

Shrek sighs.

CUT TO:


INT. KNIGHTING CEREMONY - DAY

The camera pans down from a stained glass window. The song "Royal Pain" by the Eels plays in the background as the title: "Shrek The Third" is superimposed.

A large crowd has gathered to watch the knighting. Shrek walks down the aisle of the church.

Shrek walks up to the knight who seems a bit nervous.

Shrek takes a sword from Puss, but he doesn’t have any idea what he is supposed to do with it. Shrek looks at Puss, who indicates how to knight a person with his own sword. Shrek starts to knight the knight.

SHREK I knight thee…

Shrek accidentally stabs the knight.

SHREK He-he. Ooh.

The crowd, Fiona, Puss and Donkey look on, shocked.


CUT TO: Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 7.



EXT. BOAT DOCKS - DAY

Shrek and Fiona officiate at a boat christening for the Royal Navy.

Shrek is holding a bottle of champagne. He leans on the boat, accidentally pushing it down the ramp. Shrek throws the bottle at the boat and it punches an enormous hole in the side of the hull. The boat quickly sinks.

Shrek turns to find the patrons of Far Far Away shaking their heads as they leave.

CUT TO:


INT. DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Raul, the make-up specialist, tightens some aprons around Shrek and Fiona. Donkey, Puss and Raul stand in front of them.

DONKEY Well, since you’re filling in for one, you might as well look like a real King. Can somebody come in here and work on Shrek please?

Raul stares at Shrek. Shrek raises his eyebrow.

RAUL (AHEM) I will see what I can do.

He unrolls a satchel full of different gardening tools.

Suddenly Shrek’s arms and legs are strapped into a chair.

A man stands with his back to the camera and pulls on a rip cord as if he’s holding a chain saw. VROOM! VROOM! He turns around to reveal a circular sander and starts to grind away at Shrek’s gruesome toenails. Shrek cringes.

We see a close-up of Shrek’s eye. A mascara brush comes into frame and pulls at Shrek’s eyelash.

Fiona gets her nose hairs plucked.

FIONA Ow! Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 8.


Lipstick is applied to some lips. The camera pulls back to reveal that the lips are Shrek’s.

A hand tries to tighten a zipper on Shrek’s back. It keeps snagging on the skin until they finally rip it past and tighten up the zipper all the way.

A small sock is placed onto Shrek’s foot. With a shoe horn, Shrek’s foot is shoved into a small shoe. POP!

A collar is placed around Fiona’s neck and her corset is tightened.

A drill comes into frame and tightens the rivet on Shrek’s belt. A mole is placed on his cheek.


INT. BACKSTAGE - LATER

REVEAL: Shrek and Fiona standing awkwardly in outrageous Renaissance outfits.

Donkey gasps.

DONKEY Oh.

Puss rolls his eyes.

PUSS Yeah, wow.

Fiona is uncomfortable.

FIONA Uh, is this really necessary?

RAUL (TO SHREK) Ho, ho. Quite necessary, Fiona.

SHREK I’m Shrek, you twit.

RAUL Whatever.

PUSS Okay peoples. This isn’t a rehearsal. Let’s see some hustle.

DONKEY Smiles everyone, smiles. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 9.


Off-screen, the Master of Ceremonies announces the couples arriving at the party.

Fiona turns to Shrek and sees he is not in a good mood.

SHREK I don’t know how much longer I can keep this up Fiona.

FIONA I’m sorry Shrek, but can you please just try to grin and bear it? It’s just until Dad gets better.

Shrek lets out another frustrated sigh.

FIONA Shrek?

SHREK Yeah.

FIONA You look handsome.

SHREK Ah. Come here, you.

She gives him a supportive smile. He relaxes and smiles back.

Fiona puckers up her lips and Shrek leans in for a kiss, but their bulky outfits prevent it.

Shrek and Fiona let out a huge breath of air.

SHREK Oh, my butt is itching up a storm and I can’t reach it in this monkey suit.

Shrek tries to scratch his butt but to no avail.

SHREK Oh. (WHISTLE) Hey you. Come here.

A man holding a ruby scepter walks over to Shrek.

SHREK What’s your name? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 10.


FIDDLESWORTH Eh, Fiddlesworth, sir.

SHREK Hoo hoo hooo. Perfect.


INT. BALLROOM - CONTINUOUS

The announcer introduces Shrek and Fiona.

MASTER OF CEREMONIES Ladies and gentlemen, Princess Fiona and Sir Shrek.

The audience claps. The curtain starts to open. Fiddlesworth is scratching away at Shrek’s butt.

SHREK You’ve done it. Oh, a little over to the left, yeah. That’s great.

FIONA Uh Shrek?

Fiddlesworth struggles to reach Shrek’s itch. The crowd looks on in horror. Fiona tries to get his attention.

SHREK Ahh. All right, you got it…Oh yeah, you’re on it. Oh that’s it. Oh that’s good.

FIONA Shrek…

SHREK Oh yeah. Scratch that thing. You got it. You’re on it. That’s great.

FIONA Shrek.

Shrek and Fiddlesworth finally see the crowd. They both freeze. Shrek laughs nervously.

Suddenly Shrek’s belt buckle snaps off and hits Donkey in the eye. He stumbles through the crowd screaming.

DONKEY Ow my eye. My eye. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 11.


As he is stumbling, he grabs hold of a lady in the crowd.

WOMAN What are you doing?

The woman pushes Donkey away. He falls, knocking over a guard holding an axe on his way down. The guard drops the axe. It flies past Puss, who is in the arms of a lady. The axe knocks over a vase. The vase flies up on stage and Fiona maneuvers to catch it. In flight, water spills out of the vase which causes Fiona to fall over.

Shrek’s tuxedo bib slaps him in the face. The clasp holding Shrek’s pants up breaks off. Shrek stands on stage with his pants around his ankles. He shuffles towards Fiona.

SHREK Fiona.

He trips over his pants and hits a loose wooden plank on the stage. The plank flings up and sends Fiddlesworth flying through the air where his jacket slips over a banner pole, trapping him.

FIDDLESWORTH Uhhh… (WIMPER)

Shrek has reached Fiona who is still lying on the floor.

SHREK Are you okay?

FIONA Yeah. I’m fine.

Fiona’s eyes suddenly widen.

Fiddlesworth’s jacket rips and he falls onto a waiter carrying flaming skewers.

FIDDLESWORTH Ahhhh.

The skewers fly through the air. Donkey stands up in frame with one eye half shut. The flaming skewers shoot by him and land in the curtains, setting them on fire. He blows one of the skewers out and takes a bite.

DONKEY Oh shrimp. My favorite. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 12.


The fire causes a Far Far Away shield to detach from a wooden ceiling beam and fall onto the stage, breaking it in half.

The whole stage collapses in the middle. The buffet tables slide toward Shrek and Fiona at the other end and collide.

CRASH! BANG!

CUT TO BLACK:


INT. SHREK AND FIONA’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The door to Fiona’s room flies open.

SHREK That’s it. We’re leaving.

Shrek storms in pulling bits of buffet food off his face.

FIONA Honey, please calm down…

Shrek grabs the wig off of his head and throws it aside.

SHREK Calm down? Who do you think we’re kidding? I am an ogre. I’m not cut out for this Fiona, and I never will be.

Shrek wipes off his makeup with his shirt sleeve and flings his shirt to the floor. He falls onto the bed next to Donkey.

DONKEY I think that went pretty well.

Shrek startles.

SHREK Donkey.

Shrek picks him up and throws him out the door.

DONKEY Aww, come on now Shrek.

Shrek slams the door shut.

Shrek turns back towards the bed and sees Puss reclining on his pillow. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 13.


PUSS Some people just don’t understand boundaries.

Shrek picks Puss up by the scruff of his neck and tosses him outside the window. He shuts it. Puss sits sadly on the ledge, giving Shrek his sad-eyes routine. Shrek draws the blinds.

Shrek stomps over and falls back onto the bed. Fiona tries to calm him down.

FIONA Just think… a couple more days, and we’ll be back home in our vermin-filled shack, strewn with fungus, filled with the rotting stench of mud and neglect.

This thought calms him. Shrek takes in a long, deep breath and exhales. He smiles.

SHREK Oh, you had me at "vermin-filled."

FIONA And, uh… maybe even the pitter- patter of little feet on the floor…?

SHREK (LAUGHS) That’s right. The swamp rats will be spawning.

FIONA Uh, no… you know, what I was thinking of is a little bit bigger than a swamp rat.

SHREK Donkey?

FIONA No, Shrek. Um… what if - THEORETICALLY -

SHREK Yeah?

FIONA They were little ogre feet? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 14.


SHREK Oh. (NERVOUS LAUGH)

Shocked, Shrek falls off the bed.

He slowly emerges from behind the bed.

SHREK Honey? Let’s try and be rational about this. Have you seen a baby lately? They just eat and poop and they cry and then they cry when they poop and they poop when they cry…Now, imagine an ogre baby. They extra cry and they extra poop.

FIONA Shrek.

She grabs his hands and looks deeply into his eyes.

FIONA Don’t you ever think about having a family?

Shrek takes her hand.

SHREK Right now, you’re my family.

There is a knock on the bedroom door. The door bursts open, revealing a Royal Page.

Shrek springs up.

SHREK Well, somebody better be dying.

CUT TO:


INT. KING’S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The camera pushes through a corridor that leads to the King’s bedroom. The King is lying on his lily pad, coughing.

KING HAROLD I’m dying.

The King inhales and launches into a violent coughing fit. Shrek looks a bit guilty about his last admission. Queen Lillian comes to the King’s aid and he settles down. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 15.


QUEEN LILLIAN Harold.

KING HAROLD Don’t forget to pay the gardener, Lillian.

Queen Lillian is used to these kind of non-sequiturs.

QUEEN LILLIAN Of course darling.

The King suppresses a few coughs. He turns to his daughter.

KING HAROLD Fiona…

FIONA Yes Daddy?

KING HAROLD I know I’ve made many mistakes with you.

FIONA It’s okay.

KING HAROLD But your love for Shrek has taught me so much.

Fiona smiles. The King addresses Shrek.

KING HAROLD My dear boy, I am proud to call you my son.

SHREK And I’m proud to call you my Frog… King Dad in-law.

Shrek smiles.

KING HAROLD Now, there is a matter of business to attend tooo…

The King starts wheezing and coughing. Eventually he stops. They think he’s dead. Puss solemnly removes his hat.

PUSS The Frog King is dead. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 16.


Fiona starts crying. The King suddenly wakes up, coughing.

DONKEY (TO PUSS) Put your hat back on, fool.

KING HAROLD Shrek, please come hither.

Fiona gives Shrek a look. Shrek walks over to the King.

SHREK Yeah, Dad?

KING HAROLD This Kingdom needs a new king. You and Fiona are next in line for the throne.

SHREK Oh! (Laughing) Next in line. Now you see Dad, that’s why people love you. Even on your deathbed you’re still making jokes. (Chuckles)

The King stares at Shrek, stone-faced. Shrek leans in closer.

SHREK Oh, come on Dad… an Ogre as King? I don’t think that’s such a good idea. I mean, there’s got to be somebody else. Anybody!

KING HAROLD Aside from you there is only one remaining heir.

Shrek brightens.

SHREK Really? Who is he, Dad?

KING HAROLD His name is… is… is…

SHREK What’s his name? What’s his name?!

KING HAROLD …is … Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 17.


Shrek leans in closer after each "is," waiting in anticipation. The King starts to hyperventilate.

FIONA Daddy!

The King is dead. A fly comes out of his mouth and flies away.

Puss starts to take his hat off. The fly buzzes into frame. A tongue catches it. Puss puts his hat back on.

KING HAROLD (chewing the fly) His name is Arthur.

SHREK Arthur?

KING HAROLD (COUGH) I know you’ll do what’s… (EXHALING) riiiight…

He succumbs. The King really is dead now.

QUEEN LILLIAN Harold?

SHREK Dad? Dad! Dad?

Donkey bows his head.

DONKEY Do your thing, man.

Puss takes his hat off.

Fiona starts to cry and hugs Shrek. The weight of the King’s request hits Shrek. He is in a state of shock.

We hold a moment on Queen Lillian, Shrek, Fiona, Puss and Donkey to let the King’s passing sink in.

DISSOLVE TO: Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 18.



EXT. RODEO DRIVE - CONTINUOUS

The streets of Far Far Away are empty. People are closing up the shops on Rodeo Drive.

DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

The knights of Far Far Away march toward the castle as the flag is lowered to half-masked.


EXT. POND - LATER

Close on a statue of the late King. Shrek, Fiona, the Queen, and all the Fairy-tale Creatures and Princesses have gathered for the funeral. Queen Lillian sets an old shoe box ("Ye Olde Footlocker") on top of a lily pad and sends it floating out into the water.

An overhead shot shows the box floating through the lily pads. The camera tilts up to reveal a frog choir, singing "Live and Let Die." The Princesses, Donkey, Puss and the Fairy-tale Creatures all bow their heads solemnly.

Shrek puts his arm around Fiona.

The funeral has ended and the crowd begins to disperse. Shrek, Fiona and Queen Lillian stand by the pond. Queen Lillian sadly gazes at the pond.

DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. A BLUFF OVERLOOKING THE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

The camera pulls back to reveal a cloaked figure, on horseback, overlooking the funeral. The figure removes his hood to reveal Prince Charming. He gives a smug smile, and rides off.

CUT TO:


EXT. POISONED APPLE BAR - NIGHT

Prince Charming rides up to the Poison Apple Bar. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 19.



INT. POISONED APPLE BAR - CONTINUOUS

Smoke wafts through the screen. The camera pans down to the top of a piano where an ashtray with a lit cigarette burns and a brandy sifter is filled with coins. The camera pans over to a Singing Witch who turns around to reveal a microphone in her hand. The Singing Witch starts to sing "I’ve Never Been To Me" by Nancy Wilson.

The bar is filled with various Fairy-tale Villains. Two pirates sit forlornly with their mugs. The Puppet Master takes a drink out of a beer mug. He is surrounded by a bunch of empty beer mugs.

Prince Charming enters the bar.

A group is gathered around Cyclops riding a medieval mechanical bull, hooting and hollering. The bull stops and the Villains turn to look at Prince Charming.

Prince Charming hangs his cape on a tree branch. The camera adjusts right to reveal the branch is actually one of the Evil Trees, who flings the cape to the floor. Everyone takes notice as Prince Charming walks through. Little Red Riding Hood is sitting on a pile of books at a table. Evil Dwarves glare in Prince Charming’s direction. Prince Charming walks by a pair of witches (one is the Evil Queen from Snow White) playing pool. The Evil Queen scratches when she sees him and the pool ball goes flying into the Headless Horseman’s neck. Prince Charming walks by the singing witch. He reaches the bar, pulls out a handkerchief, places it over the bar stool, and sits.

Prince Charming spots the bartender with her back to him. He clears his throat.

PRINCE CHARMING What does a Prince have to do to get a drink around here?

Mabel, the other ugly stepsister, rises up in front a poster with a smiling beer wench.

PRINCE CHARMING Ah Mabel, why they call you an ugly stepsister I’ll never know.

He winks at her. She glares at him.

PRINCE CHARMING Where’s Doris, taking the night off? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 20.


MABEL She’s not welcome here and neither are you.

She spits into the mug and wipes it with a towel.

MABEL (CONT’D) What do you want, Charming?

PRINCE CHARMING Oh not much, just a chance at redemption… (LAUGHS) And a Fuzzy Navel.

Prince Charming stands up and turns to the bar patrons.

PRINCE CHARMING And Fuzzy Navels for all my friends.

Captain Hook rips his hook across the piano keys. The singing witch bares her teeth. The witches break their pool cues. The Puppet Master breaks his beer mug.

CAPTAIN HOOK We’re not your friends.

Prince Charming grows nervous.

The Villains all approach Prince Charming.

From behind the bar, Mabel grabs Prince Charming by his shoulders and pins him on top of the bar.

PRINCE CHARMING Ahh.

Captain Hook places his hook against Prince Charming’s neck.

CAPTAIN HOOK You don’t belong here.

PRINCE CHARMING You’re right; oh, I mean you’re absolutely right, but I mean, do any of us?

CYCLOPS Do a number on his face. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 21.


PRINCE CHARMING No, no, wait, wait, wait. We are more alike than you think.

Prince Charming turns to the Evil Queen.

PRINCE CHARMING Wicked Witch. The Seven Dwarves saved Snow White and then what happened?

EVIL QUEEN Oh, what’s it to you?

PRINCE CHARMING They left you the un-fairest of them all. And now here you are, hustling pool to get your next meal. How does that feel?

EVIL QUEEN Pretty unfair.

Prince Charming begins to work the crowd.

PRINCE CHARMING And you? Your star puppet abandons the show to go and find his father.

PUPPET MASTER I hate that little wooden puppet.

Prince Charming turns to Captain Hook.

PRINCE CHARMING And Hook…

Prince Charming looks down at the hook.

PRINCE CHARMING (CONT’D) … Need I say more?

Captain Hook backs off, feeling insecure about his appendage.

PRINCE CHARMING And you. Frumpypigskin.

RUMPLESTILTSKIN Rumplestiltskin.

PRINCE CHARMING Where’s that first-born you were promised, hey? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 22.


Rumplestiltskin caresses a pacifier tattoo on his forearm.

Prince Charming gains more confidence as he confronts Mabel.

PRINCE CHARMING Mabel, remember how you couldn’t get your little fat foot into that tiny glass slipper?

Mabel sighs.

PRINCE CHARMING Cinderella is in Far Far Away right now, eating Bon Bons, cavorting with every little last Fairy-tale Creature that has ever done you wrong.

Prince Charming now has everyone’s attention.

PRINCE CHARMING Once upon a time, someone decided that we were the losers. But there are two sides to every story. And our side has not been told.

The crowd listens, rapt.

PRINCE CHARMING So who will join me? Who wants to come out on top for once? Who wants their happily ever after?

The crowd of villains cheer and starts getting rowdy. A bar room brawl ensues. Prince Charming looks on, shocked. He ducks out of the way of a flying liquor bottle. He smiles nervously and lifts his fruity, Fuzzy Navel to drink.

CUT TO:


EXT. DOCKS - DUSK

The camera booms down from the lighthouse.

BLIND MOUSE #1 This way gents.

The blind mice stumble and fall trying to get down the steps to the dock. The Fairy-tale Creatures and Dragon have gathered to wish Shrek, Puss and Donkey a bon voyage as they set off to retrieve Arthur. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 23.


On the docks, two Dronkeys chase a seagull as the camera pans over to Puss who breaks free of the embrace of a lady cat.

PUSS It’s out of my hands senorita, the winds of fate have blown on my destiny. But I will never forget you. You are the love of my life.

Off-screen, a cat meows and walks towards Puss.

PUSS (CONT’D) As are you…

Camera pulls out to reveal more and more cats approaching Puss.

PUSS (CONT’D) And you.

Puss starts walking away as two of the cats begin to engage in a cat fight. They are hissing at each other as Puss backs away from them and into another.

PUSS (CONT’D) And, uh… hi. I don’t know you, but I’d like to. I gotta go.

Puss runs out of frame. Cut to Dragon, who is talking to Donkey. Puss runs past them in the background. Dragon lets out a soft wail.

DONKEY I know, I know… I don’t want to leave you either baby, but you know how Shrek is. The dude’s lost without me.

She gives him an understanding smile.

DONKEY But don’t worry. I’ll send you airmail kisses everyday.

He blows her a kiss and she catches it. He looks down at his children, holding back tears.

DONKEY Alright, be strong babies. Be strong. Now, Coco, Peanut, you listen to Mama, alright? And Bananas, no more roastin’ marshmallows on your sister’s head. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 24.


Bananas lets out a fiery sneeze.

DONKEY Ah, that’s my special boy. Oh, come over here, all of you. Give your Daddy a big hug.

The baby Dronkeys fly around their Daddy.

The Dronkey that Fiona is holding flies off to join Donkey and the others.

Fiona nervously takes in a breath.

FIONA Shrek, maybe you should just stay and be King.

SHREK Oh, c’mon, there’s no way I could ever run a kingdom. That’s why your cousin Arthur’s the perfect choice.

FIONA It’s not that. No. It’s, you see…

SHREK (CONT’D) And if he gives me any trouble, I’ve always got persuasion and reason. (holds up his right fist) Here’s persuasion, (holds up his left fist) and here’s reason.

Shrek chuckles. Fiona gives him a look. Shrek reassures her.

SHREK Fiona, soon it’s just gonna be you and me and our swamp.

FIONA (HESITANT) It’s not going to be just you and me.

The ship’s fog horn sounds.

SHIP CAPTAIN All aboard. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 25.


SHREK It will be. I promise. I love you.

He kisses her and joins Puss and Donkey on the boat.

He title proudly reads: H.R.M CRUSHING RESPONSIBILITY II

The boat sets sail. The Dronkeys spell out "We Love You Daddy" with smoke in the sky.

FAIRYTALE CREATURES Awwwwwwwww.

PIG #1 That’s lovely.

Donkey waves to his kids, sobs.

DONKEY Bye bye babies.

Fiona runs after the boat.

FIONA Shrek.

Shrek leans against the rail, calling out to her.

SHREK Yeah?

FIONA Wait.

SHREK What is it?

She smiles and takes a deep breath.

FIONA I’m, I’m-

The Ship Captain blows a fog horn and cuts her off. Shrek smiles back at her.

SHREK (LAUGHS) I love you too honey.

FIONA No… No, I said I’m pr- Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 26.


The Ship Captain starts to blow again. Shrek grabs the horn and throws it overboard.

SHREK You’re what?

FIONA I said I’m pregnant.

The Fairy-tale Creatures behind Fiona cheer.

SHREK (doesn’t want to believe HIS EARS) Uh… what was that?

FIONA You’re going to be a father.

SHREK (NERVOUS LAUGH) That’s great.

FIONA Really? I’m glad you think so. I love you.

Shrek smiles back at Fiona.

SHREK Yeah… (NERVOUS LAUGH) Me too… you…

Fiona smiles as Queen Lillian places a hand on her shoulder.

Overjoyed at the news, Donkey pops up onto the railing.

DONKEY I’m gonna be an Uncle. I’m gonna be an Uncle. I’m gonna be an Uncle.

PUSS Oh, and you my friend are royally--

The fog horn blasts again as the boat disappears into the fog. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 27.



EXT. BOAT CABIN - NIGHT

The boat travels along in the open sea. Shrek is fast asleep as the boat travels through an estuary and beaches itself.

Shrek wakes up. He opens the cabin door.

SHREK Ahhh. Home.

He smiles to himself. The boat has beached itself right outside of Shrek’s swamp house.

He leaps off the boat.

SHREK Woohoo.


EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Shrek takes a deep breath of swamp air.

SHREK Ahh.

He skips and dances happily toward his house.

FIONA (O.S.) Shrek?

SHREK Ooo. (LAUGHS)


INT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

He sashays through the front door with his eyes closed, presenting himself.

SHREK Fiona.

After a moment of silence, he opens his eyes, realizing that Fiona is not there.

SHREK Fiona?

He looks around the room, puzzled. The door slams closed behind him. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 28.


A baby carriage rolls slowly into frame behind him. He turns slowly and sees the baby carriage covered with a blanket. Shrek removes the blanket, revealing a baby ogre, smiling innocently at him.

SHREK Huh? Oh no.

The baby burps.

SHREK (AMUSED) Better out than in, I always say. Ha ha.

OGRE BABY Hiccup.

This time the baby’s burp turns into projectile vomit aimed directly at Shrek. Shrek puts his hand up to block the vomit, but to no avail. The baby continues to vomit, but eventually stops after completely soiling himself and Shrek. The baby looks like it’s about to cry. Shrek raises his hands.

SHREK No, no, no, no, no, no. Ha, ha. It’s okay. It’s gonna be alright.

Shrek picks the baby up, smiling at it cautiously. He holds it awkwardly for a few seconds, then looks up and realizes that his house is filled with babies.

OGRE BABY Da-Da.

Babies roll around his living room, tearing the fabric off his chair. The chair reclines, catapulting one of the babies onto Shrek’s head. A standing lamp with a baby on top falls, and Shrek dives to catch him. Another baby is pulling the tablecloth, causing lethal knives to fly straight at him. Shrek snatches the baby away just before he is impaled. One of the babies strikes a match near the fireplace. Shrek runs over, picks up the baby and blows out the match. He takes a baby out of the cauldron.

SHREK Hey. Hey, hey, wait. Would ya? No, no. Stop. Hey, hey, hey. No.

Pinocchio approaches.

PINOCCHIO Shrek, no, no, not the room. Leave it alone, kid? Baby!

Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 29.

DONKEY Ogres are nervous! It can bedroom.

Gingy silly grin at Shrek grabs the baby. Fiona walks away.

FIONA Baby, wherever has been thrown the disgust.

Shrek panics. A baby is knocking glass jars off the shelf. Shrek catches him before he crawls off of it. Shrek runs through the room picking up babies.


INT. SHREK’S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

After he has collected as many babies as he can, Shrek slides open the curtain to his bedroom.

SHREK Huh? What are you doing?

PINOCCHIO What's going on up there, Shrek?

PUSS Pinocchio, what has been charming for nothing with babies.

SHREK No, no! Huh?

He sees a baby sitting in his bed, smiling up at him. The baby shrugs.

OGRE BABY Bubabatoo?

Suddenly, Shrek hears a loud rumble. He turns around. Babies start pouring out of the window and the fireplace. First there is one, then two, then thirty more follow. Hundreds of them start piling in.

Shrek makes a run for the doorway, but no matter how hard he runs, the doorway keeps getting farther and farther away! He keeps trying, hundreds of babies trailing behind.


INT. GRADUATION STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Finally, Shrek reaches the door and opens it. He slams it shut behind him and closes his eyes. Everything is quiet. He opens his eyes and finds himself on stage in front of his high school.

Shrek looks up to find a graduation cap on his head. The audience is full of ogre babies laughing at him. The camera pulls back to reveal Shrek standing at the podium, naked.

CUT TO:


EXT. BOAT DECK - DAWN, CONTINUOUS

Shrek’s eyes pop open, he sits upright and tries to compose himself.

SHREK Ahhhh. Oh, Donkey. Donkey, wake- up!

Donkey and Puss turn around, but they both have baby-ogre faces! Donkey makes a baby noise. As the camera zooms in, Donkey’s eyes glow red and his teeth become sharp and pointy. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 30.


DONKEY (with ogre baby head) Da-da!

A fog horn blows. Shrek bolts upright again. Donkey and Puss wake up.

SHREK Ahhhh.

He breaths heavily, trying to compose himself.

DONKEY Shrek. Shrek, are you okay?

SHREK Oh… I can’t believe I’m going to be a father.

Donkey and Puss look at each other. He gets up and walks to the ship’s railing.

SHREK How did this happen?

PUSS Allow me to explain. You see, when a man has certain feelings for a woman, a powerful urge sweeps over him…

SHREK I know how it happened. I just can’t believe it.

Shrek walks away.

Donkey leans over to Puss.

DONKEY How does it happen?

Puss rolls his eyes at Donkey.

CUT TO:

Donkey sees Shrek at the back of the boat staring out at the distant horizon. He walks up next to his friend.

DONKEY (SINGING) And the cat’s in the cradle and the silver spoon, (MORE) Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 31. DONKEY (CONT’D) Little boy blue and the man in the moon.

Shrek rolls his eyes.

DONKEY (CONT’D) "When you coming home, son?" "I don’t know when, But we’ll get together then, Dad-"

Shrek cuts Donkey off.

SHREK Donkey, can you just cut to the part where you’re supposed to make me feel better?

Shrek slumps against the rail. Puss hops up on the railing and whispers into Shrek’s other ear.

PUSS You know I love Fiona, Boss. Right? (CONFIDENTIALLY) But what I’m talking about here is you, me, my cousin’s boat, an ice- cold pitcher of mojitos, and two weeks of nothing but fishing.

Puss makes a "let’s go fishing" gesture by casting an imaginary rod into the ocean. Donkey is right there to whisper in Shrek’s other ear.

DONKEY Man, don’t you listen to him. Having a baby is not going to ruin your life.

SHREK It’s not my life I’m worried about ruining. It’s the kid’s.

Donkey and Puss pause as Shrek rants.

SHREK I mean…when have you ever heard the phrase "as sweet as an…ogre" or "as nurturing as…an ogre" Or how `bout…"you’re gonna’ love my dad…he’s a real ogre." Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 32.


DONKEY Okay, okay I get it. Nobody said it was going to be easy. But at least you got us to help you out.

SHREK That’s true.

He thinks for a moment.

SHREK I’m doomed.

DONKEY You’ll be fine.

SHIP CAPTAIN You’re finished.

Everyone turns to look at the Captain who clears his throat.

SHIP CAPTAIN Uh, with your journey.

He points to shore. A majestic castle stands proudly on a nearby bluff.

CUT TO:


EXT. WORCESTERSHIRE ACADEMY - DAY

Shrek, Puss and Donkey stand at the entrance to the castle.

Donkey reads the sign hanging over the entrance.

DONKEY Wor-ces-ter-shireee. Now that sounds fancy.

SHREK It’s Worcestershire.

DONKEY Like the sauce? Mmmm… It’s spicy.

The drawbridge to the castle lowers.

DONKEY Oohh. They must be expecting us.

They start over the drawbridge. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 33.


A horse whinnies behind them. Shrek, Donkey, and Puss jump out of the way as a medieval school bus storms by. The kids on the back of the bus scream when they see Shrek.

DONKEY What in the shista-shire kind of place is this?

Shrek suddenly looks concerned.

SHREK Well, my stomach aches and my palms just got sweaty. Must be a high school.

DONKEY High school?


EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS - CONTINUOUS

A group of cheerleaders practice.

CHEERLEADERS Ready? Okay. Where for art thou headed, to the top? Yeah we think so, we think so. And dost thou thinkest thine can be stopped? Nay we thinks not. We thinks not.

Shrek rolls his eyes and continues on, terrifying students as he walks through the courtyard.

FEMALE STUDENT #1 Ahhhhh.

The kid runs away quickly into the student parking lot where a bunch of different style horse-drawn carriages are parked. A carriage passes in front of Shrek that reads: "Caution - Student Driver."

DRIVERS ED INSTRUCTOR All right Mr. Percival, just ease up on the reigns-

The carriage jolts forward and crashes off-screen.

Two stoner kids emerge from a medieval-style "VW" carriage.

VAN STUDENT (cough, cough) For lo bro, don’t burn all my frankincense and myrrh. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 34.


DONKEY I’m already starting to feel nauseous from memories of wedgies and swirlies.

PUSS But how did you receive the wedgies when you are clearly not the wearer of the underpants?

DONKEY Let’s just say some things are better left unsaid and leave it at that.

He notices two female students discussing their love lives.

GUINEVERRE So then I was all like "I’d rather get the black plague and lock myself in an iron maiden than go out with you."

TIFFANY Eh, totally.

Shrek approaches them.

SHREK Pardon me…

They flee in terror.

GUINEVERRE Eh. Totally ew-th.

TIFFANY Yeah, totally.

A pair of dorky kids play a medieval, role-playing board game.

GARY Yes. I just altered my character level to plus three superbability.

SHREK Hi, we’re looking for someone named-

GARY Gee, who rolled a plus nine "dork" spell and summoned the beast and his quadrupeds. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 35.


XAVIER Ha ha. (SNORT) Ah.

The students panics when his nose starts to bleed.

SHREK I know you’re busy "not fitting in" but can either of you tell me where I can find Arthur?

While Xavier tries to control the bleeding, Gary points towards the athletic field.

GARY He’s over there.

CUT TO:


EXT. JOUSTING RANGE - CONTINUOUS

In the distance, Shrek spots A BOLD KNIGHT atop his steed. He looks very impressive as he rears up ready to charge.

Shrek, Donkey and Puss arrive to see the beginning of the charge. It’s an exciting back and forth.

Hooves pound on sand.

The Knight’s eyes steady.

The horse rears majestically.

The opponent’s eyes widen in fear.

The lance hits, and the opponent flies through the air and lands in front of Shrek, Puss and Donkey.

Shrek looks back at the victorious Knight. He removes his helmet revealing a strong handsome face. The Knight enjoys his victory.

KNIGHT (LANCELOT) Ha ha. There is no sweeter taste on thy tongue than victory.

JOCKS Oy. Right. Ooo. Ooo. Ooo.

Shrek turns to Puss. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 36.


SHREK Strong, handsome, face of a leader. Does Arthur look like a King or what?

Shrek steps forward.

TEENAGER (ARTIE) Ow.

Shrek looks down, his foot planted square in the chest of LANCELOT’s opponent. Shrek steps back.

SHREK Oh. Sorry.

The kid doesn’t budge, his arms and legs still sprawled out where he hit the ground.

TEENAGER (ARTIE) Did you just say you were looking for Arthur?

Shrek, Puss and Donkey turn back around.

PUSS That information is on a need to know basis.

DONKEY It’s top secret, hushity hush.

CUT TO:


EXT. JOUSTING RANGE - KNIGHTS AREA

The Knight commands his troops.

KNIGHT (LANCELOT) Now gentlemen let’s away… to the showers.

JOCKS Oy. Right. Ooo. Ooo.

Shrek approaches the Knight.

The Knight’s horse rears up and he falls off. The horse gallops off. The Knight looks up at Shrek in fear. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 37.


SHREK (CONT’D) Greetings your majesty. This is your lucky day.

KNIGHT (LANCELOT) So what for like are you supposed to be? Some kind of giant mutant leprechaun or something?

SHREK Oh, ho, ho, ho. Giant mutant leprechaun… You made a funny.

Shrek scoops up the Knight, tosses him over his shoulder, ogre-style.

KNIGHT (LANCELOT) Unhand me, monster.

SHREK Stop squirming, Arthur.

KNIGHT (LANCELOT) I’m not Arthur.

Shrek stops and holds Lancelot above his head. Lancelot tries to regain his dignity.

LANCELOT I am Lancelot.

Lancelot points across the school yard.

LANCELOT That dork over there is Arthur.

He points to the TEENAGE ARTHUR, skulking away across the school yard.

SHREK Hey.

Artie turns his head briefly, but keeps on walking.

Shrek sighs and dumps Lancelot to the ground.

LANCELOT Aaah.

Shrek storms off towards the school. Puss and Donkey catch up. One of the female students steps in front of Shrek. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 38.


GUINEVERRE Ahem. This is like totally embarrassing, but my friend Tiffany thinkest thou vex her so soothly…

The other girls giggle.

GUINEVERRE (CONT'D) And she thought perchance thou would wanna ask her to the Homecoming Dance or something…

SHREK Uh, excuse me?

GUINEVERRE It’s like whatever. She’s just totally into college guys and mythical creatures and stuff.

She pops her gum.

CUT TO:


INT. HALLWAY - LATER

Shrek and Puss search the hallways, looking for Artie.

SHREK Oh Arthur. Come out, come out wherever you are…

Off-screen we hear mumbling from inside a locker. Shrek and Puss look as Donkey pushes the locker door open. He has been stuffed inside. Off-screen we hear some students laughing.

DONKEY Yeah, you better run, you little punk no good-niks, `cause the days of "Little Donkey Dumpy Drawers" are over.

An "I Suck-eth" sign has been taped Donkey’s butt.

Shrek spots students entering the Gymnasium. They approach a HALL MONITOR who stops them.

HALL MONITOR

Hold it…

Two mascot costumed students walk up to the hall monitor. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 39.


COSTUME STUDENT 1 We’re here for the Mascot Contest.

COSTUME STUDENT 2 Grrrrr.

The Hall Monitor waves them in. Shrek gets an idea.

SHREK (pleased with himself) We’re here for the Mascot Contest too.

The Hall Monitor reaches out and starts painfully pinching and pulling Shrek’s skin. Shrek tries to hide the pain.

HALL MONITOR (SUSPICIOUS) This is a costume?

SHREK (RECOVERING) Aaaiyyyy… worked on it all night long.

The Hall Monitor lets his face snap back into place. Shrek struggles not to scream in agony. Hall Monitor is still suspicious.

HALL MONITOR Looks pretty real to me.

PUSS If it were real could I do this?

Puss’s claws snap out one at a time like jack-knives and then Puss jabs all the claws deep into Shrek’s butt.

DONKEY Or this?

Donkey kicks Shrek hard in the groin with his hind legs. Shrek winces and sweats.

SHREK (UNBELIEVABLY STRAINED) He’s right. If it were real that would have been agonizingly painful.

DONKEY Now watch this…. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 40.


SHREK (INTERRUPTING; THROUGH GRITTED TEETH) That’s quite enough boys.


INT. GYMNASIUM - CONTINUOUS

Principal Pynchley presides over an assembly for the entire student body. He speaks through a megaphone.

PRINCIPAL PYNCHLEY Thank you to Professor Primbottom for his invigorating lecture on how to just say "nay".

Two students are standing next to Pynchley. One is dressed up like a dragon and the other as a griffin.

PRINCIPAL PYNCHLEY And now, without further ado, let’s give a warm Worcestershire-hoozah to the winner of our "New Mascot" contest… the--

Shrek bursts through the double-doors of the gym.

PRINCIPAL PYNCHLEY (CONT’D) --ogre?

The students gasp as Shrek marches forward.

SHREK That’s right. I’m the new mascot. So let’s really try and beat the other guys… at whatever it is they’re doing.

The band plays Smashmouth’s "All Star."

PRINCIPAL PYNCHLEY This is indeed all a bit unorthodox.

Without breaking stride, Shrek grabs Principal Pynchley’s megaphone.

SHREK Now, where can I find Arthur Pendragon? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 41.


The students all point… to the basketball hoop, where Artie hangs helplessly. Shrek, Donkey and Puss turn and look up and see the freshly wedgied student. The students laugh.

In the front row, Lancelot bumps fists with Bohort.

LANCELOT Classic.

Donkey turns to Lancelot.

DONKEY You should be ashamed of yourself.

LANCELOT I didn’t do it. They did.

Lance points to the D&D nerds. They are beside themselves with nasal laughter. Nosebleed boy starts bleeding again.

Shrek reaches up and pulls Artie down to eye level.

ARTIE Please don’t eat me.

STUDENTS (CHANTING) Eat him. Eat him.

Even Principal Pynchley gets caught up in the excitement.

PRINCIPAL PYNCHLEY Eat him. Shrek yanks on Artie and pulls him off the hoop.

SHREK I’m not here to eat him.

STUDENTS AWWW.

SHREK It’s time to pack up your toothbrush and jammies. You’re the new King of Far Far Away.

ARTIE What?

The students react with surprise and disbelief. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 42.


LANCELOT Artie a King? More like the Mayor of Loserville.

BOHORT Nice one Lance.

They high five. The tuba player plays a Wha-wha-wha.

LANCELOT Burn.

Everyone laughs.

ARTIE Is this for real?

SHREK Absolutely. Now clean out your locker, kid. You’ve got a kingdom to run.

ARTIE So wait, I’m really the only heir?

Shrek pauses for just a moment, then…

SHREK The one and only.

ARTIE Give me just a second.

Artie turns back to the crowd and delivers a heartfelt speech.

ARTIE My good people, I think there’s a lesson here for all of us. Maybe the next time you’re about to dunk a kid’s head in a chamber pot, you’ll stop and think, hey, maybe this guy has feelings. Maybe I should cut him some slack. Because maybe, just maybe… this guy’s gonna turn out to be, uh…I dunno…a King. And maybe his first royal decree will be to banish everyone who ever picked on him -- that’s right, I’m looking at you, jousting team.

Artie points and Lancelot and his buddies look horrified. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 43.


ARTIE And Gwen… oh Gwen. I’ve always loved you.

GUINEVERRE Ew.

ARTIE Well good friends, it breaks my heart, but, enjoy your stay here in prison while I rule the free world baby.

SHREK Alright, let’s not overdo it.

ARTIE I’m building my city people. On Rock and Roll.

SHREK You just overdid it.

Shrek shoves the kid through the door.

ARTIE Ow.

Shrek, Donkey, and Puss exit the gymnasium.

CUT TO:


INT. LIBRARY - DAY

All the Princesses and Fairy-tale Creatures have gathered for Fiona’s baby shower. A group of birds gently place a flowered wreath on Fiona’s head. The Princesses all gaze at her.

PRINCESSES (GASP) Oh.

SNOW WHITE Look at you.

RAPUNZEL Wow.

SNOW WHITE You look darling. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 44.


SLEEPING BEAUTY Just precious. Look at her.

RAPUNZEL So, have you had any cravings since you’ve been pregnant?

Fiona stands at the buffet table, stuffing her face with cakes, pies, and anything else she can get her hands on.

FIONA (MOUTH FULL) No, no, not at all.

She takes another bite.

FIONA Do you smell ham?

SNOW WHITE (SINGING) Oooh. It’s present time.

The birds and forest creatures all flock to Snow White. They chirp and hoot happily. Snow White looks annoyed.

CINDERELLA Oh, Fiona, won’t you please open mine first? It’s the one in front.

Fiona reads the card.

FIONA (READING) "Congratulations on your new mess maker…" Oh, `mess maker.’ (LAUGHS) "Hopefully this helps. Love, Cinderella."

Fiona opens it and pulls out a plastic baggy and pooper- scooper.

PRINCESSES Oooo. Aaaah.

DORIS Will you look at that?

SLEEPING BEAUTY What is it? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 45.


CINDERELLA It’s for the poopies.

SLEEPING BEAUTY Eww. Wait, babies poop?

RAPUNZEL Everyone poops Beauty.

The Fairy-tale Creatures get excited.

PIG #2 Fiona…

PIG #1 Fiona. We all chipped in for a little present too.

PIGS Yah.

Pinocchio spins around, revealing a "Baby-Bjorn" with Gingerbread Man inside.

GINGERBREAD MAN/PINOCCHIO Ta dah.

PRINCESSES Oooh.

GINGERBREAD MAN You know the baby’s gonna love it because I do.

FIONA Oh, you guys, that’s so sweet. Thank you.

Fiona turns to another present.

FIONA Who’s this one from?

SNOW WHITE I got you the biggest one because I love you the most.

The other girls scowl at her.

FIONA (reading the card) "Have one on me, love Snow White" Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 46.


Fiona pulls the string, opening the box to reveal a dwarf.

FIONA (CONFUSED) Umm… what is it?

SNOW WHITE Ha, haaa. He’s a live-in baby- sitter.

NANNY DWARF Where’s the baby?

FIONA You’re too kind, Snow, but I can’t accept this.

SNOW WHITE Think nothing of it. I’ve got six more at home.

FIONA What does he do?

CINDERELLA The cleaning.

SNOW WHITE The feeding.

NANNY DWARF The burping.

FIONA So what are Shrek and I supposed to do?

RAPUNZEL Well, now you’ll have plenty of time to work on your marriage.

FIONA Gee thanks Rapunzel, and what’s that supposed to mean?

RAPUNZEL Oh, come on now, Fiona. You know what happens.

Cinderella prods beauty. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 47.


SLEEPING BEAUTY (WAKING) Huh? You’re tired all the time…

SNOW WHITE You’ll start letting yourself go…

GINGERBREAD MAN Stretch marks.

RAPUNZEL Say goodbye to romance.

Dragon puts her head through the window.

DRAGON Yort.

FIONA Um sorry… but how many of you have kids?

Doris wedges herself in on the couch.

DORIS She’s right. A baby is only gonna strengthen the love that Shrek and Fiona have. How did Shrek react when you told him? Tell me.

Fiona smiles.

FIONA Well, when he first found out…Shrek said-

DRAGON Roarrr.

CUT TO:


EXT. SKY ABOVE FAR FAR AWAY - DAY

The Fairy-tale Villains are heading into town on flying broomsticks. The Evil Trees are hanging underneath some of the large broomsticks. Prince Charming is riding side saddle with one of the witches.

PRINCE CHARMING (CONT’D) (LAUGHING) Onward my new friends. (MORE) Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 48. PRINCE CHARMING (CONT’D) To our happily ever afters. Ha ha ha ha ha.

A bug flies into his mouth.

PRINCE CHARMING Gaa. Gulp. Ahhhh.

Prince Charming takes the bug out of his mouth.

PRINCE CHARMING Now, bombs away!

From the sky, Prince Charming, Cyclops and the Evil Witches swoop down in "winged" formation on the broomsticks.

The Evil Trees are dropped like bombs. They pull their branches (i.e. rip cord) to activate their plumage as parachutes. Prince Charming and his army dive bomb towards Rodeo Drive.


EXT. RODEO DRIVE - CONTINUOUS

A POV shot of an Evil Witch flying over Rodeo Drive. People are diving out of her way.

The Evil Trees land, surrounding the shoppers, who flee in terror.

EVIL TREES Ha ha ha ha ha ha.

A shadow falls over the child, and he looks up to reveal Captain Hook and the Headless Horseman on horseback.

CAPTAIN HOOK Well, well, well. If it isn’t Peter Pan.

MOTHER His name’s not Peter.

CAPTAIN HOOK Shut it, Wendy.

MOTHER Ahhh.

Evil dwarves chase patrons from the "Ye Olde Booteria" shop. They replace a few letters on a store window and turn it into "Ye Olde HOOTERS."

The excited patrons race back in. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 49.


An Evil Knight scares the patrons of Farbucks away and then takes a seat to drink the unfinished coffee.

Another Villain throws a cart through a store window. Cyclops rips the stamps off some envelopes, puts the envelopes back in the mailbox and laughs.

CYCLOPS Ha, ha, ha, ha.

The camera pans up to Prince Charming on the broomstick flying down Rodeo Drive.

PRINCE CHARMING Enough pillaging. To the castle.

Prince Charming, on the broom, leads the Fairy-tale Villains up to the castle.

CUT TO:


EXT. CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

The Evil Witches surround the castle. Dragon takes down one of the witches flying by, but more Evil Witches circle her.

Fiona runs to the window.

The Evil Witches drop a metal net over Dragon. She struggles.

DRAGON Roarrrr.

CUT TO:


INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

BANG! The Fairy-tale Creatures run to barricade the door.

The Three Pigs and Pinocchio push a dresser and other furniture in front of the door.

The Fairy-tale Creatures are fortifying the room. They brace themselves against the furniture.

GINGERBREAD MAN (TO FIONA) You go and take care of the baby.

The Princesses panic. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 50.


SNOW WHITE Everybody stay calm. We’re all going to die.

Doris slaps Snow White to calm her down.

SNOW WHITE (WHIMPER)

Fiona rushes to the fireplace and pushes it to one side, revealing an underground passageway.

FIONA Everyone in. Now.


INT. OUTSIDE LIBRARY DOOR - CONTINUOUS

Prince Charming commands the Villains.

PRINCE CHARMING C’mon. Put some back into it people.

The Villains use an Evil Tree as a battering ram. Cyclops rides the tree like a mechanical bull.

CYCLOPS Yee-haw. Ow.


INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

BOOM! The door is starting to give way.

FIONA We don’t have time. Now go.

QUEEN Quickly ladies.

The Princesses go down the stairs.

GINGERBREAD MAN We’ll hold them off as long as we can.

BOOM! There is a loud explosion and the door blows open. Prince Charming and the Fairy-tale Villains enter. He spots the Fairy-tale Creatures having a tea party. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 51.


PRINCE CHARMING Where are Shrek and Fiona?

GINGERBREAD MAN Name doesn’t ring a bell.

PIG #1 Yah.

PIG #2 No bell.

The Fairy-tale Creatures go back to drinking their tea.

PRINCE CHARMING I suggest you freaks cooperate with the new King of Far Far Away.

GINGERBREAD MAN The only thing you’re ever gonna be King of is "King of the Stupids."

Prince Charming snaps his fingers.

PRINCE CHARMING Hook.

CAPTAIN HOOK Right.

Captain Hook approaches Gingerbread Man.

CAPTAIN HOOK Avast, ye cookie.

He raises his hook under Gingerbread Man’s chin.

CAPTAIN HOOK Start talkin’.

Gingerbread Man tries to hold strong, but passes out.

A montage of Gingerbread Man’s life flashes before his eyes.


INT. BAKERY - DAY

A baker pulls some gingerbread cookies out of the oven. He puts on the gum drop buttons and Gingerbread Man is born.

MUFFIN MAN Gingy. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 52.


GINGERBREAD MAN Papa.


INT. GINGERBREAD CLASSROOM - DAY

Gingerbread Man is attending school.

TEACHER Settle down, now.

Gingerbread Man graduates.


EXT. ROAD TRIP - DAY

Gingerbread Man is driving in his car with the top down.


INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Gingerbread Man is making out with his girlfriend at a movie.


EXT. CHURCH - DAY

Gingerbread Man and his bride run down the aisle as man and wife.


INT. FARQUAAD’S CASTLE - DAY

Gingerbread Man is locked in a jail. Farquaad pulls off his legs.


INT. GYM - DAY

Gingerbread Man is running on a treadmill, doing his rehabilitation.


EXT. WHEAT FIELD - DAY

Gingerbread Man is running through a wheat field.

CUT BACK TO:


INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

Gingerbread Man is still in a dream state singing. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 53.


GINGERBREAD MAN (SINGING) "On the Good Ship Lollypop, It’s a sweet trip, To the candy shop, Where the Bon Bons play, On the sunny beach of Peppermint Bay.."

Prince Charming becomes frustrated, he turns Pinocchio’s head towards him.

PRINCE CHARMING You. You can’t lie. So tell me puppet… Where is Shrek?

Pinocchio thinks.

PINOCCHIO (NERVOUS) Well, I don’t know where he’s not.

Prince Charming gets in Pinocchio’s face.

PRINCE CHARMING You’re telling me you don’t know where Shrek is?

Pinocchio is still a little nervous.

PINOCCHIO It wouldn’t be inaccurate to assume that I couldn’t exactly not say that is or isn’t almost partially incorrect.

Pinocchio thinks he has the upper hand.

PRINCE CHARMING So you do know where he is.

PINOCCHIO On the contrary, I’m possibly more or less, not definitely rejecting the idea, that in no way, with any amount of uncertainty that…

PRINCE CHARMING Stop it.

PINOCCHIO (CONT’D) …I undeniably do or do not know where he shouldn’t probably be. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 54.


Captain Hook scratches his head, even the Three Little Pigs are frustrated.

PINOCCHIO If that indeed wasn’t where he isn’t. Even if he wasn’t not where I knew he was could mean that I wouldn’t completely not know where he wasn’t.

Gingerbread Man continues to sing his "Lollipop Song."

PIG #1 Oh, enough. Shrek went off to bring back the next heir. Oh.

The pig realizes his admission and immediately covers his mouth. Pinocchio laughs nervously.

PRINCE CHARMING He’s bringing back the next heir?

PINOCCHIO No.

Pinocchio’s nose grows.

PRINCE CHARMING Hook, get rid of this new "King."

CAPTAIN HOOK Right.

PRINCE CHARMING But bring Shrek to me. I have something special in mind for him.

PINOCCHIO He’ll never fall for your tricks.

Pinocchio’s nose grows again.

WOLF Oh boy.

CUT TO:


EXT. BOAT DECK - DUSK

The boat cuts through the open sea. Artie smiles as he watches Worcestershire shrinking away on the horizon. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 55.


ARTIE I can’t believe it… me a King? I…I mean I knew I came from royalty and all, but I just figured everyone forgot about me.

He looks out to sea, disbelieving.

SHREK Oh no, in fact, the King asked for you personally.

Artie smiles.

ARTIE Really? Wow. Look, I know it’s not all gonna be fun and games.

SHREK It really is all fun and games, actually. Sure, you have to knight a few heroes, launch a ship or two. By the way, make sure you hit the boat just right with the bottle.

ARTIE Boat with the bottle? Any idiot can hit a boat with a bottle.

Shrek chuckles sheepishly.

SHREK Well, I’ve heard it’s harder than it looks.

ARTIE Whoa. This is gonna be huge. Parties, princesses, castles… princesses.

DONKEY It’s gonna be great, Artie. You’ll be living in the lap of luxury. They got the finest chefs around waiting for you to place your order.

Puss jumps up onto the railing next to Artie.

PUSS And fortunately you’ll have the royal food tasters. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 56.


ARTIE (INTRIGUED)) Oh yeah? What do they do?

PUSS They taste the food before the King eats, to make sure it’s not poisoned.

ARTIE Poisoned?

Shrek senses trouble and immediately steps in.

SHREK Or too salty.

Shrek turns to Puss and Donkey, trying to shut them up.

DONKEY (TO ARTIE) Don’t worry about it. You’ll be safe and sound with the help of your body guards.

ARTIE Body guards?

PUSS All of them, willing at a moment’s notice to lay down their own lives out of devotion to you.

ARTIE Really?

PUSS Si, and the whole kingdom will look to you for wisdom and guidance.

Behind Artie, Shrek mouths "shut-up" to Puss and Donkey.

DONKEY Just make sure they don’t die of famine.

PUSS Or plague.

DONKEY Oh, plague is bad. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 57.


PUSS The coughing, the groaning, the festering sores.

Shrek interrupts with a mock laugh.

SHREK Oh. Festering sores. Hey, you are one funny kitty cat.

PUSS What did I say?

SHREK We don’t want Artie here getting the wrong idea.

Shrek motions to Artie, but he’s gone. They all look around.

SHREK (CONT’D) Uh, Artie?

The boat suddenly pitches to the right. Shrek braces himself. Puss and Donkey tumble away.

ALL Whoa.

Artie swings the wheel around, sending the boat back in the direction of his school. Shrek works his way into the cabin and gains control of the wheel. The drunken Ship Captain slides by.

SHIP CAPTAIN Whoa. Oh, there goes my hip.

SHREK Artie.

Shrek turns the wheel the other way.

SHREK (CONT’D) What are you doing?

The boat veers again, heading back toward Far Far Away. Artie falls to the ground and slides to the back of the boat.

A shuffle board stick slides next to Artie. He grabs it.

ARTIE What does it look like?

He jams it in the boat’s wheel. The boat lurches. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 58.


He swings the boat back in the other direction. Shrek rises up and grabs the wheel and turns it.

SHREK This really isn’t up to you.

Artie falls underneath the wheel. He stands up shoving the wheel back the other way.

ARTIE But I don’t know anything about being King.

SHREK You’ll learn on the job.

Donkey and Puss roll across the deck.

DONKEY Whoaaa.

Shrek grabs the wheel and swings it around. Artie yanks the wheel. They wrestle for control.

ARTIE Sorry to disappoint you, but I’m going back.

SHREK Back to what? Being a loser?

As soon as the word leaves his lips, Shrek knows he’s gone too far. Stung, Artie lets go of the wheel, leaving Shrek to yank hard on it. He pulls the steering column from the decking.

SHREK (CONT’D) Now look what you did!

ARTIE Look what I did? Who’s holding the wheel chief?

Donkey climbs up onto the railing. He is seasick and is about to puke when he sees jagged rocks ahead.

DONKEY (SWALLOWING; THEN SHOUTING) Shrek.

Shrek desperately sets the wheel back down and tries to steer the ship clear of the rocks. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 59.


The camera pans past the boat. Off-screen we hear the boat crash into the rocks.

SHIP CAPTAIN (O.S.) Land ho.


EXT. BEACH - DUSK

Shrek, holding Puss and Donkey, staggers onto a small beach. He glares at Artie who pulls himself out of the surf. Shrek drops Puss and Donkey.

Puss, tired of being wet, shakes himself vigorously. His fur puffs up into a fro. He drops his head in shame.

PUSS How humiliating…

SHREK Oh, nice going, Your Highness.

ARTIE Oh, so now it’s "Your highness?" What happened to "loser?" Huh?

SHREK Hey, if you think this is getting you out of anything, well it isn’t. We’re heading back to Far Far Away one way or another, and you’re gonna be a father.

Artie raises an eyebrow. Puss and Donkey stare at Shrek uncomfortably.

ARTIE What?

DONKEY (clearing his throat) A-hem. You just said father…

SHREK You’re… I said king. You’re gonna be King.

ARTIE (IMITATING SHREK) "You’re gonna be King." Yeah right. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 60.


Artie shakes his head and marches down the beach toward a path into the woods.

SHREK Where do you think you’re going?

ARTIE Far Far Away… from you.

SHREK You get back here young man and I mean it.

Artie keeps climbing.

PUSS Uh boss, I don’t think he’s coming back and maybe it’s for the best. He is not exactly king material.

Shrek looks towards Artie.

DONKEY When were you planning on telling him that you were really supposed to be King?

SHREK Oh c’mon, now why would I do that? Besides, he’ll be ten times better at it than me.

Shrek starts off after Artie. Donkey jumps in front of Shrek.

DONKEY Hey, woah ho ho, Shrek. Then you’re gonna have to change your tactics if you want to get anywhere with this kid.

Beat.

SHREK You’re right, Donkey.

Shrek picks up a piece of driftwood.

SHREK What about this?

Donkey shakes his head in disgust. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 61.


DONKEY Shrek.

Shrek tosses the log.

SHREK Oh c’mon. It’s just a joke. (LAUGHS) Still…

Shrek walks off, trying to catch up to Artie.


EXT. FOREST - MOMENTS LATER

Artie marches up the mountain trail.

Shrek thinks for a moment and then tries a different tactic with the kid. He catches up to Artie.

SHREK Listen Artie…

Artie looks back over his shoulder. He sees Shrek and just keeps going.

SHREK (CONT’D) If you think this whole mad scene ain’t dope, I feel you dude. I mean, I’m not trying to get up in your grill or raise your roof or whatever, but what I am screaming is, yo, check out this kazing thazing bazaby.

Puss and Donkey glance at each other. Artie notices a cottage in the distance and heads toward it.

SHREK I mean, if it doesn’t groove or what I’m saying ain’t straight trippin’, just say, oh no you didn’t, you know, you’re gettin’ on my last nerve. And then I’ll know it’s… then I’ll know it’s whack--

Passing a tree, Artie nonchalantly releases the branch, striking Shrek square in the face and takes off running. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 62.



EXT. MERLIN’S CAMP -- CONTINUOUS

A boiling soup pot sits over a fire in front of a small shack. Artie charges though, pounding desperately on the door.

ARTIE Somebody help! I've been kidnapped by a monster who's trying to relate to me!

SHREK Artie, wait.


Shrek, Puss, and Donkey run into the camp.

ARTIE C’mon. C’mon. Help. Help. Hello?

Suddenly, a burst of light shoots through a candle box that is hung on the door. A bright, colorful image of an old wizard’s head is projected out. Donkey is terrified.

DONKEY AHHHH.

WIZARD HEAD (MERLIN) Greetings cosmic children of the universe, and welcome to my serenity circle!

Shrek watches.

WIZARD HEAD (MERLIN) Please leave any bad vibes outside the healing vortex. And now prepare …

With a "FZZZT" and a "BLOOP", the image disappears.

The door opens and a tiny old man, Merlin, comes out.

MERLIN I knew I should of gotten that warranty.

Merlin smashes the security device with his little fist and is promptly zapped in the head. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 63.


MERLIN Ahh. Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow.

ARTIE Mr. Merlin?

SHREK You know this guy?

ARTIE Yeah. He was the school’s magic teacher until he had his nervous breakdown.

MERLIN Uh, technically I was merely a victim of a level three fatigue, and at the request of my therapist and the school authorities, I have retired to the tranquility of nature to discover my divine purpose.

Merlin smacks a fly that has landed on his head.

Shrek and Artie stare in astonishment.


MERLIN Now, can I interest anyone in a snack or beverage?

SHREK Uh, no.

Merlin offers up a baking dish full of rocks.

MERLIN Sure you don’t wanna try my famous rock au-gratin?

Merlin takes a bite and chews loudly. His gums are bleeding from eating rocks.

MERLIN It’s organic.

They both stare at him uncomfortably. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 64.


SHREK Oh, thanks, I just ate a boulder on the way in. What we need are directions back to Far Far Away.

ARTIE What’s with the "we"? Who said I was going with you?

SHREK Oh, I did. Cause there’s a lot of people counting on you so don’t try and weasel out of it.

ARTIE If it’s such a great job, why don’t you do it?

SHREK Understand this kid, it’s no more Mr. Nice Guy from here on out.

ARTIE Oh, so that was your "Mr. Nice Guy?"

SHREK I know, and I’m gonna miss him.

ARTIE You know what? Why don’t you go terrorize a village and leave me alone?

SHREK Oh, is that some kind of crack about ogres? You get your royal highness to Far Far Away before I kick it there. (TO MERLIN) Now which way am I kicking?

MERLIN Oh, I could tell you. But since you’re in the midst of self- destructive rage spiral it would be karmic-ly irresponsible.

SHREK Self-destructive ra… (TO MERLIN) Look, are you gonna help us or not? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 65.


MERLIN Most definitely, but only after you take the journey to your soul.

SHREK Yeah, I don’t think so.

MERLIN Look pal, it’s either that or some primal scream therapy. Ahhhhhhhhhh.

Shrek grabs Merlin’s mouth and closes it.

SHREK Alright, alright… journey to the soul…

CUT TO:


EXT. MERLIN’S CAMP - LATER

A fire blazes.

Merlin throws a handful of dirt into the fire, it flares.

MERLIN Now all of you, look into the "Fire of Truth" and tell me what you see! Yah. Ha. (Wild war cry) Woo-looo-looo-looo.

He points at the smoke and it starts to form objects (i.e. Rorschach inkblots).

Puss and Donkey, excited, sit by the fire.

DONKEY Ooo. Charades. Okay, I see a dutch fudge torte with cinnamon swirls.

MERLIN Okay. Monster, go for it.

Shrek glances at the fire. The stroller from his nightmare begins to take shape in the smoke. He blows the image away. He covers his fear and changes the subject.

SHREK I see a rainbow pony. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 66.


MERLIN Excellent work. (THEN) Now. The boy.

ARTIE This is lame.

Merlin whacks Artie on the back of the head.

ARTIE Ow.

MERLIN You’re lame. Now just go for it.

He tosses more dirt and flames burst up. Artie studies it.

ARTIE Okay. There’s a baby bird and a father bird sitting in a nest.

Merlin starts beating a drum. Artie’s expression starts to change as he stays focused.

MERLIN Yes. Stay with it. Stay with it.

ARTIE Wait, the dad just flew away. Why did he leave the little bird all alone?

Shrek starts to take this in as he watches. Artie gets more worked up.

ARTIE It’s trying to fly, but it doesn’t know how to. It.. it’s gonna fall.

Suddenly, Artie catches what he said. As the smoke drifts away, he looks and sees everyone else staring back at him, stunned.

MERLIN Whew, proper head case you are, aren’t you? Really messed up. Whoa.

Merlin goes back inside. They all stare at Artie. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 67.


ARTIE Yeah, yeah, okay. I get it. The bird’s me. My dad left. So what?


Donkey gives Shrek a nudge to go over and talk to Artie. Shrek hesitates and Donkey insists.

SHREK (CLEARS THROAT) Look Artie…um-

Just as he’s about to get going, "That’s What Friends Are For" starts playing loudly from Merlin’s security device drowning out any conversation. They all turn toward the shack where Merlin peeks out.

MERLIN (loud, over the music) Just thought I might help set the mood! Y’know for your big heart to heart chat!

Everyone stares at him.

He sheepishly turns off the device and shuts the door. It’s quiet again.

SHREK I know what it’s like to not feel ready for something.

Artie looks at him.

SHREK Even ogres get scared…you know, once in a while.

ARTIE I know you want me to be king, but I can’t. I’m not cut out for it and I never will be, alright?

Shrek takes this in.

ARTIE (CONT’D) Even my own dad knew I wasn’t worth the trouble. He dumped me at that school the first chance he got and I never heard from him again. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 68.


SHREK My dad wasn’t really the fatherly type either.

ARTIE Well, I doubt he was worse than mine.

SHREK Oh yeah? My father was an ogre. He tried to eat me.

Artie looks at Shrek.

SHREK Now, I guess I should have seen it coming. He used to give me a bath in barbecue sauce and put me to bed with an apple in my mouth.

Artie chuckles at this.

ARTIE Okay… I guess that’s… pretty bad.

Artie laughs and then pokes at the fire.

SHREK You know, it may be hard to believe what with my obvious charm and good looks, but people used to think that I was a monster. And for a long time, I believed them.

Artie looks up at Shrek.

SHREK (CONT’D) But after awhile, you learn to ignore the names that people call you and you just trust who you are.

Artie gently pokes at the embers with a stick for a moment.

ARTIE You know, you’re okay, Shrek.

He tosses the stick into the fire.

ARTIE You just need to do a little less yelling and use a little more soap. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 69.


SHREK Thanks Artie.

ARTIE The soap’s because you stink. Really bad.

SHREK Yeah. I got that.

The camera slowly booms up and away from the group as the fire continues to burn.

CUT TO:


INT. SEWER CATACOMBS - CONTINUOUS

The Princesses, Fiona and Queen Lillian are surrounded by darkness as they tiptoe down the steps and into the catacombs below the castle.

They round a corner and step onto a ledge with Fiona leading the way, holding a torch.

CINDERELLA Oh this place is filthy. I feel like a hobo.

Fiona tries to keep her frustration in check.

SNOW WHITE I’m sorry but this just isn’t working for me.

Sleeping Beauty, still being carried by Doris, wakes up.

SLEEPING BEAUTY Everything’s always about you, isn’t it? It’s not like your attitude is helping, Snow.

SNOW WHITE Well maybe it just bothers you that I was voted fairest in the land.

RAPUNZEL You mean in that rigged election?

SNOW WHITE Oh, give me a break. (gesturing toward hair) (MORE) Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 70. SNOW WHITE (cont’d) "Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down thy golden extensions!"

QUEEN Ladies, let go of your petty complaints and let’s work together.

Snow White and Rapunzel share an indignant look.

Fiona travels deeper into the catacombs. The other Princesses follow.

SNOW WHITE So I guess the plan is we just wander aimlessly in this stink hole until we rot.

FIONA No, we’re gonna get inside and find out what Charming’s up to.

DORIS I know he’s a jerk and everything, but I gotta admit, that Charming makes me hotter than July.

SLEEPING BEAUTY Ew.

RAPUNZEL Ugh.

Finally, Fiona spots what she was looking for.

FIONA That’s it.

Fiona, Queen Lillian, and the Princesses run towards a long ladder and climb up through a grate into the main castle courtyard.


EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - CONTINUOUS

They peer around a corner and see the construction of an outdoor theater is underway. Two stagehands walk by carrying a large dragon set piece. Evil dwarves are busy painting the set. The finishing touches are put on the stage tower.

The Princesses hug the wall as a group of guards march by.

Rapunzel takes off in the other direction, and signals the Princesses to follow her. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 71.


RAPUNZEL Come on, this way.

FIONA Rapunzel. Wait.

Fiona and the Princesses race after Rapunzel. They spot her sprinting into the castle and follow her. They burst through the doors and see Prince Charming holding Rapunzel by the arm.

FIONA Charming, let go of her.

A large group of armed Far Far Away Guards surround them.

Prince Charming smiles at Fiona.

PRINCE CHARMING But why would I want to do that?

RAPUNZEL Grrrr.

PRINCE CHARMING Woof.

He looks back at Rapunzel lovingly, and the two share a long kiss. Fiona and the other Princesses are shocked.

FIONA What?

PRINCE CHARMING Say hello ladies, to the new Queen of Far Far Away.

Cinderella claps excitedly.

CINDERELLA Yaaaaaaaaay.

The Princesses stare her down.

FIONA Rapunzel, how could you?

RAPUNZEL Jealous much?

Prince Charming eyes up the Princesses. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 72.


PRINCE CHARMING Soon you’ll be back where you started… scrubbing floors or locked away in towers; that is, if I let you last the week.

RAPUNZEL But Pooky, you promised you wouldn’t hurt them.

PRINCE CHARMING Not here, "kitten whiskers." Daddy will discuss it later. Now forgive us, we have a show to put on.

FIONA Shrek will be back soon Charming, and you’ll be sorry.

He stops and flashes a sadistic smile.

PRINCE CHARMING Sorry? Don’t you realize --once Shrek sets foot in Far Far Away he’s doomed?

Prince Charming leads Rapunzel out. She looks back at them apologetically. Everyone wears a look of defeat.

The guards march them off.

Fiona and the princesses are locked away in a prison cell. Fiona looks through the bars of the cell, feeling helpless.

CUT TO:


EXT. WOODS OUTSIDE OF FAR FAR AWAY - DAY

Shrek startles awake. He sits up and scratches his head, looking around. He realizes it’s morning.

Behind him a peaceful bird lands on a tree branch. Suddenly, the tree branch that was holding the bird flicks it off.

Shrek senses the movement behind him and turns around to find everything is normal. He turns back around to wake up everyone.

The trees start to advance toward Shrek.

The log Artie is sleeping on suddenly sits up, knocking Artie, who is still asleep, to the ground. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 73.


ARTIE Ow.

The tree turns around to reveal an Evil Tree. Donkey finally wakes up.

DONKEY Ahhh.

The Evil Trees continue to advance. A piano is heard. The trees part and Hook is revealed to be playing the piano.

The music builds to a dramatic finale. Captain Hook turns away from his keys and faces them.

DONKEY Look out. They’ve got a piano.

CAPTAIN HOOK Kill 'em all. Except the fat one.

He stares hard at Shrek and aims his hooked prosthetic.

CAPTAIN HOOK King Charming has something special in mind for you, ogre.

Shrek is perplexed.

SHREK "King Charming?"

CAPTAIN HOOK Attack.

Pirates charge forward, swinging in from the tree branches.

PIRATES Aaaargh.

One lands and gets his peg-leg stuck in the ground.

The pirates close in. Shrek grabs one and throws him to the side.

One pirate raises his sword and prepares to swing at Artie.

SHREK Artie, Duck.

Shrek pushes Artie’s head down and the sword narrowly misses him. The pirate prepares to swing again and Shrek lifts Artie above his head. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 74.


Still in the air, Artie uses both legs to kick the pirate to the ground. Shrek and Artie share a satisfied look.

A pirate charges Donkey.

DONKEY Ahhh.

Puss draws his sword and begins fighting off the pirate, protecting Donkey.

CAPTAIN HOOK Ha-ha. Argh.

PIRATES Argh. Argh.

The camera pans across the back of the piano to reveal Merlin happily playing along with Captain Hook. He notices and rudely elbows Merlin out of the way.

A pirate runs at Shrek, only to be tripped by Artie. The pirate bounces off Shrek’s belly.

CAPTAIN HOOK Ready the plank.

A wooden board is thrown on a stump, creating a makeshift "plank." The pirates back Shrek onto the plank.

Several pirates with swords force Shrek onto the plank. He is backed up to the edge of the plank and falls into a waiting treasure chest below. Several pirates try to shut the lid on him.

Puss, Donkey and Artie are trying to hold off the Villains. Suddenly, two Evil Trees come into frame and scoop Puss, Donkey and Artie up in a net.

The pirates aim the cannon at Puss, Donkey and Artie. Artie starts to panic. Puss extracts his claws and tries to cut through the netting.

The cannon fuse is lit.

Shrek bursts open the treasure chest and stands up with the chest still stuck to his behind.

DONKEY Shrek.

ARTIE Help. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 75.


Shrek sees the lit fuse and quickly formulates a plan. He grabs two pirates and shoves them into the treasure chest. He tosses the chest onto the other end of the plank and catapults himself over to the cannon. At the last second, Shrek is able to aim the cannon in the opposite direction. The cannon fires and hits Captain Hook’s piano, blowing it into pieces.

Realizing their defeat, the Evil Trees drop the netting that holds Donkey, Puss and Artie. The Evil Trees and Pirates take off running.

Captain Hook turns and sees his army running off. He shakes his hook in the air.

CAPTAIN HOOK Ya cowards.

SHREK What has Charming done with Fiona?

CAPTAIN HOOK She’s gonna get what’s coming to her.

He raises his hook threateningly but it gets caught on an Evil Tree’s branch and is dragged away with the rest of the Villains.

CAPTAIN HOOK Ahhh. (YELLING BACK) And there ain’t nothing you can do to stop him.

TIGHT ON SHREK, filled with worry. Nothing else matters to him now.

Artie, Puss, and Donkey run over to Shrek.

PUSS We’ve got to save her.

DONKEY But she’s so far far away.

Shrek thinks for a moment.

SHREK Get yourself back to Worcestershire, kid. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 76.


ARTIE No, Shrek. Hold on a second. I’ve got an idea.


EXT. MERLIN’S CAMP - CONTINUOUS

Merlin is sitting cross-legged, deep in meditation. Artie approaches him.

MERLIN (CHANTING) I’m a buzzing bee, buzz, buzz, buzz…

ARTIE Mr. Merlin, they need a spell to get them…I mean, us, back to Far Far Away.

Merlin stops meditating and looks out of the corner of his eye at Artie.

MERLIN (GETTING UP) Forget it. I don’t have that kind of magic in me anymore, kid. How about a hug instead? Hmm? That’s the best kind of magic.

Artie tries a new approach.

ARTIE Mr. Merlin please. I know you can DO IT-

MERLIN I said, forget it.

ARTIE BUT-

Merlin turns and starts to walk away muttering under his breath.

MERLIN (CONT’D) Mumble, grumble, interrupt my healing. Mumble, mumble.

Artie thinks for a moment, staring at Merlin. Artie starts to sob. Merlin stops and turns around. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 77.


MERLIN Oh. What, what’s with you?

Artie continues to cry.

ARTIE It’s just so hard. You know? They really need to get back `cause their kingdom’s in trouble `cause there’s a really bad man and it’s just so hard…

Merlin is visibly uncomfortable.

MERLIN C’mon, take it easy.

Artie’s blubbering becomes frustrated and unpredictable.

ARTIE No. I don’t think you understand. There’s a mean person doing mean things to good people-

SHREK Oh, have a heart old man.

Artie grabs him, now desperate.

ARTIE And they really need your help to get them back. So why won’t you help them?

MERLIN Oh.

Artie speaks one last, indecipherable line.

Merlin is stunned. He doesn’t know what to do.

MERLIN Uh, Okay… I’ll go and get my things.

Merlin goes into his cave. Artie immediately recovers. Shrek is impressed.

ARTIE Piece of cake. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 78.


SHREK Well, well, well. You want some eggs with that ham?

Shrek smiles.

Merlin returns holding a spell book.

MERLIN Now, I am a little rusty, so there could be some side effects.

DONKEY Side effects?

MERLIN Don’t worry, whatever it is, no matter how excruciatingly painful it may be, it’ll wear off eventually… I think.

Merlin cracks his knuckles. A bolt of lighting shoots out his hands and blows up a rock next to Donkey.

DONKEY Ah.

MERLIN Oops.

Donkey and Puss shoot Shrek a pleading look.

DONKEY Are you sure this is a good idea?

SHREK Look, if Artie trusts him, that’s good enough for me. Even if his robe doesn’t quite cover his-

MERLIN Alacraticious expeditious, a zoomy zoom zoom. Let’s help our friends get back, um… soon.

Magic rays shoot out of Merlin’s fingers. Shrek, Puss, Donkey and Artie disappear in a puff of smoke.

MERLIN Woah. It worked.

CUT TO: Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 79.



EXT. SOMEWHERE IN THE WOODS - CONTINUOUS

They reappear and fall out of the sky and bounce through the canopy of a large apple tree. They ping-pong through the foliage and land in a heap at the base of the tree.

DONKEY (moan and groan)

Donkey adjusts himself, feeling hung over.

DONKEY (CONT’D) (in Puss’ body) Oh man, I haven’t been on a trip like that since college.

SHREK Donkey?

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) What? Is there something in my teeth?

Donkey’s eyes widen. He realizes his voice is coming out of Puss’ body.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Huh? What the? (GASP) Oh no.

Donkey (in Puss’ body) grabs Puss’ hat. He looks down at Puss’ boots. His tail begins to twitch.

DONKEY (CONT'D) (in Puss’ body) I’ve been abracadabra’d into a fancy feasting second rate sidekick.

Puss (in Donkey’s body) falls from a tree next to Donkey (in Puss’ body).

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) At least you don’t look like some kind of bloated roadside piñata. You really should think about going on a diet. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 80.


DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Yeah, and you should think about getting yourself a pair of pants. I feel all exposed and nasty.

Both Shrek and Artie stare at them. A strained smile pasted to their faces. They burst out laughing.

Donkey joins Puss, both of them scowling.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Oh, so you two think this is funny?

Puss is fuming.

Shrek and Artie regain their composure.

ARTIE (SNICKERS) I’m really sorry guys.

SHREK Don’t be. You got us back kid.

Shrek motions to Far Far Away, just a few miles ahead of them. He turns back to Artie.

Artie smiles.

Donkey takes a few awkward steps in Puss’ body.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow. How in the Hans Christian Andersen am I supposed to parade around in these goofy boots?

PUSS Be very careful with those - HEE HAW.

Puss is shocked by this. He tries to recover.

PUSS They were made in Madrid by the finest- HEE HAW. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 81.


DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Oh, you’ll learn to control that.

TIME CUT TO:


EXT. ENTRANCE TO FAR FAR AWAY - AFTERNOON

Shrek, Puss (in Donkey’s body), and Artie rush past a welcome sign to the town that has been boarded over so it now reads "Go Go Away."

Donkey (in Puss’ body) struggles to walk. His tender new feet hurt in their tiny boots.

DONKEY Seriously man, you need some comfort inserts or arch supports or something. (noticing Rodeo Drive) Woah.

Inside the kingdom, Rodeo Drive is trashed. There is graffiti everywhere.

Suddenly a carriage driven by Evil Witches comes zooming down Rodeo Drive.

EVIL WITCHES Woohoo.

The carriage zips around a corner on two wheels. A drunken Evil Dwarf is almost hit by the carriage while crossing the street.

Shrek is shocked by what he sees.

A crash is heard off-screen.

EVIL DWARF #1 Hey… watch it I’m walking here… and I’m gonna keep going…

A large explosion is heard off-screen while Little Red Riding Hood pick pockets the Evil Dwarf.

A carriage wheel on fire rolls by a marionette theatre with Pinocchio dancing in it.

SHREK Pinocchio? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 82.


PINOCCHIO Shrek.

Shrek and the rest rush over as the curtain starts to go down on Pinocchio. He presses his puppet hands against the glass.

SHREK Pinocchio.

PINOCCHIO Help me.

SHREK What happened?

PINOCCHIO Charming and the Villains have taken over everything. They attacked us but Fiona and the Princesses got away. And now she’s- -

The time has run out. The cheesy music stops as the curtain goes down.

SHREK She’s what? She’s what?

Shrek looks at the marionette theatre and sees how much it costs per show.

SHREK (turns to Puss in Donkey’s BODY) Puss, loan me five bucks.

DONKEY C’mon Puss, you heard the man, help a brother out.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Do you see any pockets on me?

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Hold on a second.

Donkey (in Puss’ body) removes his boot, he turns it over and a bag of money falls onto the ground. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 83.


DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Aha.

Donkey (in Puss’ body) tosses the money to Shrek.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) I had no idea …really …I swear.

Shrek quickly dumps the change into the machine. The music starts and the curtain goes up again and Pinocchio dances.

SHREK Quick, Pinocchio. Where is Fiona?

PINOCCHIO Charming’s got her locked away some place secret. You gotta find him. He’s probably getting ready for the SHOWWWW---

The curtain goes down again.

SHREK Wait, wait, wait Pinocchio. What show?

Pinocchio’s hand comes out from under the curtain and points to a poster on the wall. Puss reads the poster out loud.

PUSS (reading the poster) It’s A Happily Ever After, After All.

SHREK Shrek’s final performance.

The picture shows Charming, sword raised in the air, with his foot pinning Shrek, tongue sticking out of his mouth, to the ground.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Whoa, Shrek. You didn’t tell us you were in a play.

SHREK Well I guess I’ve been so busy I forgot to mention it. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 84.


GUARD #1 (O.S.) It’s the ogre. Get him.

Shrek turns and sees a large group of Charming’s royal knights, armed and ready. They drive them back into the alley. Puss (in Donkey’s body) steps forward.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Don’t worry, Jefe. I got this.

He whips his head towards the oncoming guards. His eyes are large and sweet. His lips pout. The guards are momentarily hypnotized by his cuteness, until they realize they’re staring at a donkey.

The guards recoil.

GUARD #2 Ugh. Kill it.

Puss (in Donkey’s body) immediately retreats.

Artie glances at the theater poster on the wall and steps forward, confronting the guards.

ARTIE Look, don’t you know who he thinks he is? How dare you?

Shrek picks up on his plan.

SHREK Donkey, we’re dealing with amateurs.

The guards are confused. Artie tears the poster off the wall. Shrek glances at Artie, who steps forward, yanking the poster off the wall.

ARTIE He’s a star people. Hello? I’m so sorry about this Mr. Shrek.

SHREK I’m gonna lose it.

ARTIE I assume you have everything ready for tonight. You did get the list for the dressing room?

Donkey marches in. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 85.


DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Yeah, the breakfast croissants stuffed with seared sashimi tuna. Oh, and please tell me you at least have the saffron corn with the jalapeno honey butter cause our client cannot get into his proper emotional state without his jalapeno honey butter.

SHREK I just lost it.

GUARD #1 Uh…Maybe they should talk to Nancy in Human Resources.

Shrek pushes the guards aside and continues on towards the castle.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Oh, we’ll have much to say to Nancy, I promise.

The guards look at each other nervously.

CUT TO:


INT. COURTYARD STAGE - DAY

A group of enchanted trees work on through their dance number.

Two dwarfs on bungee chords helplessly swing back and forth in the rear of the stage.

The camera lands on Prince Charming reading his lines next to a Shrek stand in.

PRINCE CHARMING (reading his lines from a SCRIPT) With this sword, I do- No.

He starts the line over.

PRINCE CHARMING With this sword, I do smote thee. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 86.


Without looking, Prince Charming stabs the stand in, who falls to the ground.

PRINCE CHARMING (TO HIMSELF) ) Is that the right word? "Smote?" "Smooote." Is that even a word actually? Maybe I should just smite him.

Unseen stage hands drag the stand-in away.

PRINCE CHARMING Let’s try this again. Now…


Stagehands shove another stand in onto the stage beside Prince Charming.

PRINCE CHARMING (playing the scene out QUIETLY) Shrek attacks me, I pretend to be afraid. (he fake screams) Ooh...

Prince Charming does a quick mime of being afraid and chuckles.

PRINCE CHARMING I say… (he riffles through pages) "Finally the Kingdom will get the happily ever after they deserve, die Ogre", blah, blah, blah…

Without looking he stabs stand in #2. He falls to the ground. Prince Charming is still frustrated.

PRINCE CHARMING Oh. It just doesn’t feel real enough yet.

He throws the sword to the ground and turns toward the dancing villains who are staring at him.

PRINCE CHARMING Who told you to stop dancing?

CYCLOPS Uh… Wink and turn, wink and turn. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 87.


He throws the script on the ground and notices the stand-in.

PRINCE CHARMING And what are you laying around for? Get up. Honestly.

Prince Charming storms off.

CUT TO:


INT. CHARMING’S DRESSING ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER

Prince Charming storms into his colossal gold leafed dressing room, its walls covered with posters of inspirational sayings and portraits of Prince Charming in different acting roles.

Slamming the door, he plops down in his throne chair in front of a dressing table and large 3-way mirror. A statuette of his mother is on the vanity. He looks at it intently.

PRINCE CHARMING Our happily ever after is nearly complete, mummy. And I assure you, the people of this kingdom will pay dearly for every second we’ve had to wait.


Charming adjusts the mirror, revealing a reflection of Shrek standing in the doorway. Artie, Puss and Donkey stand along side him.

Prince Charming quickly stands up and faces Shrek.

SHREK Break a leg. Or, on second thought, let me break it for you.

He walks across the room as Prince Charming backs against his dressing table.

Prince Charming fumbles behind his back and pushes a button under the counter.

PRINCE CHARMING Thank goodness you’re here. I was beginning to think you might not make it back in… time.

Shrek picks him up by the front of his shirt and scowls. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 88.


SHREK Where’s Fiona?

PRINCE CHARMING Don’t worry. She and the others are safe. For now.

Shrek strengthens his grip.

Suddenly, a group of guards burst into the room and quickly surround Shrek, Artie, Puss and Donkey.

ARTIE Ow.

Prince Charming smiles.

Shrek looks around and realizes he’s beat. He drops Charming with a thud.

Prince Charming brushes himself off as the guards surround Shrek.

Prince Charming walks over to Artie. A smile grows across his face.

PRINCE CHARMING Let me guess… Arthur?

Artie looks indignant. He raises himself up.

ARTIE It’s Artie, actually.

PRINCE CHARMING This boy is supposed to be the new King of Far Far Away?

Laughing, Prince Charming draws his sword and holds it up to Artie’s neck.

PRINCE CHARMING How pathetic. Now, stand still so I won’t make a mess.

Shrek steps in.

SHREK Charming, stop. I’m here now, you got what you wanted. This isn’t about him.

Artie is confused. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 89.


ARTIE Then who’s it about? I’m supposed to be King, right?

Shrek hesitates and then gathers himself.

SHREK You weren’t really next in line for the throne, okay? I was.

ARTIE But you said the King asked for me personally.

SHREK Not exactly.

ARTIE What’s that supposed to mean?


Shrek becomes defensive.

SHREK Look, I said whatever I had to say, alright. I wasn’t right for the job, I just needed some fool to replace me, and you fit the bill. So just go.

Artie is stunned.

ARTIE You were playing me the whole time.

Shrek fights back tears as he punishes Artie more.

SHREK You catch on real fast kid… Maybe you’re not as big of a loser as I thought.

Puss (in Donkey’s body) is about to interject when Donkey (in Puss’ body) covers his mouth and signals him to stay quiet.

ARTIE You know, for a minute there, I actually thought you -

PRINCE CHARMING What? That he cared about you? He’s an ogre. What did you expect? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 90.


Prince Charming signals the guards to release Artie. He stares at Shrek one last time and heads out.

Shrek lowers his head in shame.

PRINCE CHARMING You really do have a way with children, Shrek.

Prince Charming smiles and the guards lead Shrek off.


INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE CHARMING’S DRESSING ROOM:

Shrek is led by the guards down the hallway.


EXT. CASTLE GATE:

The scene cross-dissolves to Artie’s back as he walks away from the castle. He gives one last look back, and angrily storms away.


INT. DUNGEON:

Shrek’s ankles and wrists are shackled. Shrek pulls on his chains. He sadly looks out the cell window.


INT. PRISON:

The scene cross-dissolves to another prison window. Fiona comes to the window of her prison cell. She stares sorrowfully at the castle in the distance.


INT. FAR FAR AWAY PRISON CELL - DAY

All of the Princesses, Queen Lillian and Fiona are locked up in the same prison cell.

Cinderella is frantically scrubbing a spot on the floor to a shine.

Fiona looks out the cell window towards the castle in the distance. Behind her, Snow White paces around, complaining.

SNOW WHITE Had we just stayed put like I suggested, we could be sipping tea out of little heart-shaped cups… Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 91.


CINDERELLA Yeah… yeah, heart shaped cups.

SNOW WHITE Eating crumpets smothered with loganberries.

CINDERELLA Yeah… loganberries.

SNOW WHITE Shut up Cindy.

CINDERELLA Yeah, shut up.

Cinderella looks down at her reflection in the floor.

CINDERELLA (REFLECTION) No. You shut up.

CINDERELLA Just stay out of this.

SNOW WHITE Who cares who’s running the kingdom anyway?

FIONA I care.

Fiona steps forward and challenges them.

QUEEN And you should all care too.

Suddenly, the cell door flies open. Donkey and Puss (in each other’s bodies) are tossed in as the door is slammed behind them.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Hey, hey, hey, hey.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Yeah, and I have your badge number, "TIN CAN-"

Puss, in Donkey’s body, hisses and arches his back like a cat. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 92.


FIONA (O.S.) Donkey?

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Princess?

FIONA Puss?

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Lo siento, Princessa, but I am Puss, stuck here inside this hideous body.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) And I’m me.

FIONA BUT YOU’RE-

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) I know, I know. Everything’s a little fruity in the loops right now. But what happened is, we went to high school, the boat crashed, and we got "bippity-bopity-booped" by the "Magic Man."

DORIS You poor sweet things.

CINDERELLA I don’t get it.

SNOW WHITE The cat turned into a little horse that smells like feet. What’s to get?

SLEEPING BEAUTY (WAKING UP) Huh? Who dat?

FIONA Where’s Shrek? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 93.


DONKEY Charming’s got him, Princess. And he plans on killing Shrek tonight in front of the whole kingdom.

Fiona’s lets out a breath.

FIONA Alright everyone, we need to find a way out, now.

The Princesses nod in agreement.

SNOW WHITE You’re right. (to the other Princesses) Ladies, assume the position!

Sleeping Beauty falls asleep standing up. Snow White quickly assumes her position by lying down and puckering her lips. Cinderella dusts off a spot, sits down and crosses her legs.

FIONA What are you doing?

SLEEPING BEAUTY Waiting to be rescued.

FIONA You have got to be kidding me.

SNOW WHITE Well, what do you expect us to do? We’re just four… (NOTICES DORIS) I mean, three, super hot princesses, two circus freaks, a pregnant ogre and an old lady.

Queen Lillian smiles and then casually walks by the Princesses.

QUEEN LILLIAN Hmmm. Excuse me. Old lady coming through.

She walks right up to the brick wall, takes a deep breath and lets out a yell.

QUEEN LILLIAN Hiiiyyyiiiaaaah.

She head-butts a hole right through the brick wall. Fiona and the Princesses are impressed. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 94.


PRINCESSES/PUSS/DONKEY Whoa.

FIONA Mom?

QUEEN LILLIAN Well, you didn’t actually think you got your fighting skills from your father, did you?

Fiona beams at her mother and then turns to the Princesses.

Snow White points to another wall behind them.

SNOW WHITE Excuse me, I think there’s still one more.

Queen Lillian turns and sees the another wall barring their way.

QUEEN LILLIAN Hmmmm.

Queen Lillian hurries to the other wall.

QUEEN LILLIAN Hiiiiyah.

It crumbles, revealing the outside. The princesses wince.

Fiona approaches her mother.

Queen Lillian turns around, this time a little woozy, singing softly to herself.

FIONA Why don’t you just lie down?

Queen Lillian continues to sing to herself as she walks away.

Fiona turns to the others.

FIONA Okay girls, from here on out, we’re gonna take care of business ourselves.

Snow thinks for a moment and then glances at the other Princesses. They nod.

Snow looks determined. She rips off a sleeve, revealing a Dopey tattoo. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 95.


Sleeping Beauty tears the bottom of her dress.

The Queen puts lipstick smudges under her eyes (a la a football player).

Cinderella sharpens the heal of her glass slipper.

Doris burns her bra.

The Princesses place their hands over Fiona’s. Puss and Donkey’s hands come in last.

CUT TO:


EXT. COURTYARD STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Captain Hook replaces his "hook" appendage with a "baton" and taps it on the score in front of him.

ANNOUNCER Ladies and gentlemen. The Far Far Away Theatre at the Charming Pavilion is proud to present: "It’s a Happily Ever After, After All."

The camera pulls back from a playbill that reads: "It’s a Happily Ever After, After All - Starring Prince Charming as himself."

Two intimidating Evil Knights are handing out the playbills and are using spears to usher people into their seats.

EVIL KNIGHT #1 Enjoy your evening of theatrical reverie, citizen. Oy. No food or beverages in the theatre. Hey.

The orchestra begins to warm up.


EXT. STAGE

The camera follows Rumplestiltskin as he hurries from the stage to backstage.


INT. BENEATH THE STAGE - NIGHT

SHREK stands atop a wooden platform, like a beaten man. Cyclops is binding his arms and legs with heavy chains attached to the floor. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 96.


He pulls the chains tight.

SHREK Oww, easy.

CYCLOPS Sorry. I guess I was just showing off for the little one.

SHREK Huh?

CYCLOPS It’s "Bring your kids to work day." C’mere beautiful.

Cyclops motions to the shadows.

CYCLOPS’ DAUGHTER walks out from the shadows. She looks like Cyclops with long hair and skirt.

Shrek recoils.

SHREK Well… she’s got your eye.

Cyclops picks her up and embraces her.

CYCLOPS Who woulda thought a monster like me deserves something as special as you?

They touch foreheads affectionately.

Shrek looks at the two of them and then gets a determined look on his face.

CUT TO:


EXT. CASTLE GARDENS

The camera booms down into some trees just outside of the castle. Fiona and the Princesses appear behind a log. Two Evil Trees guard the castle gate. Fiona uses a duck call to signal Snow White. She skips down the path toward a side entrance, where two Evil Trees are standing guard. Snow White stops in front of them, singing our version of: "Animal Friends/With A Smile." Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 97.


SNOW WHITE (O.S.) (SINGING) "Ahh ha ha ha ha haa."

The birds answer her in song.

SNOW WHITE (SINGING) "Ahh ha ha ha haa."

The birds answer again.

SNOW WHITE (SINGING) "Ha ha ha ha haaaa. Little birdies take wing, flitting down from the trees they appear, and to chirp in my ear."

All the forest creatures flock to her.

SNOW WHITE (SINGING) "All because I sing. Ahh ha ha ha ha haaa."

More forest creatures flock to Snow White.

SNOW WHITE (SINGING) "Ahh ha ha ha ha haaa."

The Evil Trees stare in amazement.

SNOW WHITE (SINGING) "Ha ha ha ha ha haaaaaaa."

Suddenly Snow White’s face changes. She transitions into Led Zeppelin’s "Immigrant Song."

SNOW WHITE Ahhaha. Ahhaha.

All the animals turn and attack the trees. Fiona and the Princesses charge forward.

FIONA Move it. Go go go.

CUT TO: Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 98.



EXT. FAR FAR AWAY ZOO - CONTINUOUS

Donkey and Puss (in each other’s bodies) run through front gates of the Far Far Away Zoo.

The Dronkeys are held captive in the zoo. Donkey (in Puss’ body) busts open their cage.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) My babies.

The Dronkeys fly over to Puss (in Donkey’s body) and hug him.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Help. Ow.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Hey.

CUT TO:


EXT. CASTLE GARDENS - CONTINUOUS

The Princesses run toward the castle. Doris punches through the lock to open the gates.

As they enter the castle grounds, a group of guards runs towards them. Cinderella takes out a couple of them with her boomerang crystal slipper. Sleeping Beauty falls to the ground, asleep. The guards trip over her body.

Doris runs up to the foot of a canopy and takes a knee. The Princesses use Doris as a step to leap onto the canopy and over the castle wall.

CUT TO:


EXT. RODEO DRIVE - CONTINUOUS

Donkey and Puss (in each other’s bodies) break Pinocchio out of his marionette theatre.

CUT TO: Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 99.



EXT. BAKERY - MOMENTS LATER

Gingerbread Man is locked inside a bakery display case. Donkey and Puss arrive (in each other’s bodies). Donkey (in Puss’ body) awkwardly tries to cut the glass open with his claws. Puss (in Donkey’s body) intervenes, quickly bashing a hoof through the glass. They pull Gingerbread Man out of the case.

CUT TO:


EXT. CASTLE ROOFTOP - CONTINUOUS

Fiona leads the Princesses and Queen, as they stealthily creep along the rooftop.

CUT TO:


EXT. CASTLE ROOFTOP - CONTINUOUS

Fiona peers around a corner and sees two guards blocking their path. She gets an idea.

The Guards turn around to find a leg sticking out. They "ooh" and "aah" as they approach the leg. The camera pans up to reveal Doris.

DORIS Hey. How’s it going?

She kicks the guards to the ground, and they take off running.

CUT TO:


EXT. FAR, FAR AWAY CASTLE- LATER

Donkey, Puss, (still in each other’s bodies) and the rescued Fairy Tale Creatures run toward the castle.

Donkey and Puss peek out from behind a bush.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) "O" to the "K." The coast has cleared.

Donkey turns to address the Fairy Tale Creatures behind him. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 100.


DONKEY (in Puss’ body) All right people, let’s do this thing. Go Team Dy-No-Mite.

PINOCCHIO I thought we agreed we would go by the name of "Team Super Cool."

GINGERBREAD MAN As I recall it was "Team Awesome."

WOLF I voted for "Team Alpha Wolf Squadron."

DONKEY Alright. Alright. Alright. From henceforth we are to be known as "Team Alpha Super Awesome Cool Dynomite Wolf Squadron."

The Three Pigs notice something.

PIG #1 Ach to Lieber. There is some strange little girl over there staring at us.

Donkey, in Puss’ body, turns to look. Artie is staring at the strange crew.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Artie.

Artie turns and walks away. Puss, in Donkey’s body, runs to stop him.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Wait, wait, wait, wait wait. Hey. Where is the fire, Senor?

Artie pushes Puss (in Donkey’s body) out of the way.

ARTIE Oh please, don’t act so innocent. You both knew what was going on the whole time and you kept it to yourself.

Artie starts to storm away. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 101.


DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Artie, it’s not like it seems.

ARTIE It’s not? I think it seems pretty clear. He was using me. That’s all there is to it.

Artie starts to walk off.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Using you? Man, you really don’t get it.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Shrek only said those things to protect you.

This stops Artie in his tracks.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Charming was going to kill you Artie. Shrek saved your life.

Artie realizes the truth and is suddenly concerned for his friend.

CUT TO:


EXT. COURTYARD STAGE

The lights dim.

The curtain rises.


INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Rumplestiltskin orders for the spotlight.

RUMPLESTILTSKIN Cue the spot.


EXT. COURTYARD STAGE - CONTINUOUS

A spotlight comes up on Rapunzel, singing in a tower while the Fairy-tale Villains play their roles below. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 102.


RAPUNZEL (SINGING) "I wait alone up here. I’m trapped another day. Locked up here - please set me free. My new life I almost see, A castle, you and me. Yes, a castle you and me…"

Audience members look at each other in confusion; is this crap for real?

Raul, the make-up artist, cries in the audience.

From the audience a knight holds up a candle.

Up in the rafters, Rumplestiltskin cues the Cherubs.

RUMPLESTILTSKIN Cherubs.

The Cherubs (Evil Dwarves) are lowered onto the stage by a rope and pulley system.

A spotlight appears on stage. From underneath the stage a clamshell rises and opens to reveal Prince Charming on horseback.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "Tis I. Tis I. Upon my regal steed. Princess, my love, at last you shall be freed."

The Cherubs drop rose petals onto Prince Charming and the clamshell. Prince Charming and his steed, Chauncey, jump out of the clamshell.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "I’m strong and brave, and dashing my way there. With speed. With might. With soft and bouncy hair."

Prince Charming begins to make his way over to the tower.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "Through the blistering desert…" Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 103.


Prince Charming chops the head off of the flying griffin puppet.

EVIL TREES (SINGING) "Hot."

Prince Charming dismounts, casually chops the head off of the sea serpent and crosses the sea.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "Across the stormiest sea."

EVIL DWARFS (SINGING) "Wet."

He makes his way to dry land. He weaves in and out of the Evil Trees, who are playing the part of a forest.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "Facing creatures so vile."

FAIRY-TALE VILLAINS (SINGING) "Foul."

He casually cuts off the head of a wooden cut-out reindeer and shoves a villain in a bear costume out of the way.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "So you can gaze upon me."

Prince Charming has made his way up the stairs at the bottom of Rapunzel’s tower.

RAPUNZEL (SINGING) "I knew you’d come for me. And now we finally meet."

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "I knew you’d wait. And from my plate of love you’d eat." Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 104.


There is a loud flash and a loud growling is piped through the sound system and flares go off as a trap door opens in the stage floor. Prince Charming hams it up for the audience, putting his hand to his ear.


INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Rumplestiltskin cues Mabel.

Mabel is growling through a megaphone backstage.

MABEL Roar. Roar.

Three Evil Witches turn a lever and an Evil Dwarf blows some steam with a billow.


EXT. COURTYARD STAGE - CONTINUOUS

A large, imposing shadow grows onstage. The silhouette fades, revealing a shackled Shrek on stage. He pulls at his chains as he notes the audience and views the spectacle before him.


INT. AUDIENCE - CONTINUOUS

A crowd of fans, with "SHREK" written on their stomachs, cheer. One of the fans is hit with an arrow. They promptly sit down.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "Who is this terrible ugly fiend who so rudely intervened?"

Pirates and Evil Knights dance in from the wings.

FAIRY-TALE VILLAINS (SINGING) "Will Charming fight? Or will he flee?"

RAPUNZEL (SINGING) "Oh please, rescue me."

FAIRY-TALE VILLAINS (SINGING) "From this monstrosity." Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 105.


Prince Charming takes a dramatic pause and sings in an ultra- high voice of a castrato.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "Fear thee not Honey Lamb. I will slice this thing up like a HAM."

SHREK Oh boy.

Prince Charming relishes the moment, pulling out his sword and aiming it at Shrek’s chest. Prince Charming’s voice climbs even higher.

PRINCE CHARMING You are about to enter a world of pain with which you are Not- (SINGING) "Familiaaaaaaar."

He holds the last, highest note. Shrek winces. Goblets, eye glasses, a glass tiara and glass pearls all break in the audience.

Prince Charming smiles. Shrek looks at him with contempt.

SHREK Well it can’t be anymore painful than the lousy performance you’re giving.

The audience laughs at Shrek’s remark. Prince Charming is thrown by their reaction.

From a trap door underneath the stage Rumplestiltskin tries to help Prince Charming out by feeding him his next line.

RUMPLESTILTSKIN "Prepare foul beast."

He clears his throat and tries to get back into character.

PRINCE CHARMING (SINGING) "Prepare foul beast, your time is done."

SHREK Oooh, if you don’t mind could you kill me, and then sing? Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 106.


The audience laughs. Prince Charming gets in Shrek’s face.

PRINCE CHARMING Be quiet.

SHREK Oh, come on, I’m just havin’ fun with ya. That’s actually a very nice leotard.

PRINCE CHARMING Thank you.

SHREK Do they come in men’s sizes?

The audience laughs again.

HOOK He, he. Now that be funny.

The crowd laughs again. Shrek smiles, enjoying how he’s screwing up the show. Prince Charming is furious.

PRINCE CHARMING Enough.

The crowd falls silent.

Prince Charming turns back to Shrek.

PRINCE CHARMING Now you’ll finally know what it’s like to have everything you’ve worked for, everything that’s precious to you taken away.

Prince Charming raises his sword.

PRINCE CHARMING (CONT’D) Now you’ll know how I felt.

Suddenly a fireball hits the blade, melting it.

PRINCE CHARMING Ahhhhh.

Another huge fireball spreads across the sky as Dragon flies above the theater. The Dronkeys follow behind her.

DRAGON Roar. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 107.


The Three Pigs come running down the aisle.

PIG #1 Sausage Roll.

The Three Pigs leap onto the stage, going into a drop and roll move to land in between Shrek and Prince Charming. They strike a fighting pose.

Pinocchio comes flying in on his strings, landing with a flurry of kung-fu hands.

The Wolf unzips the wolf costume, steps out and joins the others.

WOLF Arg.

Gingerbread Man pops up in the tower window, grabs Rapunzel’s hair and swings down. Before he hits the ground, the end catches and he bounces like a bungee jumper. Her hair falls into a pile next to a very surprised Gingerbread Man.

Rapunzel screams. Her mousy brown hair crammed under a hair net. She runs off crying.

Prince Charming looks around, almost surrounded.

Suddenly a shadow falls over the crowd and they gasp. Dragon and the Dronkeys fly in and land on the stage.

Puss and Donkey leap off her back to the stage.

DONKEY (in Puss’s body) Pray for mercy from…

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) …Puss.

He claps his hooves on the stage.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) And Donkey.


He carves a letter "D" on Pinocchio’s bottom.

PINOCCHIO (re: his bottom) Hey. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 108.


Queen Lillilan head-butts through one of the backdrops, with Sleeping Beauty and Doris. Snow White flies in behind them with the help of her woodland creatures ("Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" style). Cinderella runs on stage equipped with a mop as her weapon. Together, the Princesses strike fierce poses and stand next to Shrek.

The audience applauds.

Suddenly the front door of the "swamp house" set crashes to the floor, revealing Fiona.

FIONA Hi honey. Sorry we’re late. You okay?

SHREK Much better, now that you’re here.

AUDIENCE Awwwwwww.

The audience applauds. Shrek turns to Prince Charming raising his shackled wrists.

SHREK So Charming, you wanna let me out of these so we can settle this ogre to man?

Prince Charming considers this for a second.

PRINCE CHARMING Oooh, that sounds fun. But I have a better idea.

Prince Charming strikes an imperious pose and claps his hands. Cyclops suddenly emerges from the trap door, knocking Puss and Donkey down. He approaches them menacingly.

The witches fly in and threaten the princesses with their brooms. The Evil Queen rises up behind Queen Lillian and puts a knife to her throat.

The Evil Dwarves grab The Three Pigs. Gingerbread Man is suddenly surrounded by many Evil Knights. He poops out a gum- ball.

Dragon starts to move forward only to find herself surrounded by crossbows. A bunch of pirates grab Fiona and tie her up.

SHREK Fiona. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 109.


FIONA No. Let go of me.

Shrek struggles to free himself of the chains, but it’s no use.

Prince Charming’s eyes narrow.

PRINCE CHARMING You will not ruin things this time ogre. (TO VILLAINS) Kill it.

Prince Charming signals to the villains to attack Shrek. As the villains advance towards Shrek, a spotlight shines in their eyes, stopping them in their tracks.

ARTIE Everybody stop.

PRINCE CHARMING (EXASPERATED) Oh, what is it now?

SHREK Artie?

Artie jumps from the spotlight.

Artie lands clumsily on a hanging cloud.

Artie leaps awkwardly from cloud to cloud. The audience stares in awe.

After one last leap, he swings down on the Cherub’s cable, sending the little person up in the air.

Artie lands on the stage in between the Villains and Shrek. He stands facing the Villains.

ARTIE Who really thinks we need to settle things this way?

The Evil Knights think about it and raise their hands. The other Villains follow suit.

ARTIE You’re telling me you just want to be Villains your whole lives?

This gives the Villains pause. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 110.


CAPTAIN HOOK But we are Villains. It’s the only thing we know.

ARTIE Didn’t you ever wish you could be something else?

The Villains aren’t convinced.

EVIL TREE #2 Well, it’s easy for you to say. You’re not some evil enchanted tree.

PRINCE CHARMING You morons. Don’t listen to him. ATTACK THEM-

Another Evil Tree covers Prince Charming’s mouth and then motions to Artie.

EVIL TREE #1 What Steve’s trying to say here is that it’s hard to come by honest work when the whole world’s against you.

EVIL TREE #2 Right, thanks Ed.

ARTIE Okay, fair enough. You’re right. I’m not a talking tree. But, ya know, a good friend of mine once told me that just because people treat you like a villain, or an ogre…

Artie shares a look with Shrek.

ARTIE … or just some loser…

The Fairy-tale Villains listen intently.

ARTIE (CONT’D) …it doesn’t mean you are one.

The Evil Tree tightens his grip as Prince Charming struggles to break free. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 111.


ARTIE (CONT’D) The thing that matters most is what you think of yourself.

Artie commands the stage.

ARTIE (CONT’D) If there’s something you really want, or there’s someone you really want to be, then the only person standing in your way …is you.

Artie points at Rumplestiltskin directly in front of him. Rumplestiltskin is alarmed.

RUMPLESTILTSKIN Me?

OTHER PIRATES Get 'im lads.

ARTIE No, no, no! What I mean is: each of you is standing in your own way.

VILLAINS Oooooooh.

The Headless Horseman breaks through the crowd.

HEADLESS HORSEMAN I’ve always wanted to play the flute.

The Fairy-tale Villains and Creatures look at each other. The Evil Queen steps up.

EVIL QUEEN I`d like to open up a spa in France.

The Villains nod in agreement.

CAPTAIN HOOK I grow daffodils.

Complete silence as everyone stares at Hook.

CAPTAIN HOOK And they’re beautiful.

Captain Hook looks thoughtfully at his sword, then throws it down. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 112.


The pirates throw theirs down, followed by the witches and Evil Knights. The evil knight holding Pinocchio is thinking about it when Pinocchio reaches over and takes the ax from him. The weapons pile up in the middle of the stage. Everyone else cheers and starts to mingle, introducing themselves and shaking hands.

Gingerbread Man high fives with an Evil Knight. Fiona is untied.

Mabel walks up to Doris and lightly punches her on the jaw. Doris returns the sign of affection by punching Mabel in the jaw, but a bit too hard, sending her falling to the ground.

Suddenly, Prince Charming kicks himself free of the Evil Tree and charges them. He grabs a sword from the discard pile and raises it up, his aim set at Artie.

PRINCE CHARMING Aaaahhhh.

Despite his fear, Artie faces Prince Charming bravely. As Prince Charming charges, Shrek finds the strength to break his chains. Just before Prince Charming strikes, a chain whips into frame, wrapping around the sword. Shrek pulls Prince Charming around in a circle, away from Artie. Furious, he charges Shrek and stabs him with the sword. Charming lets go and Shrek stumbles back with the weapon impaled in him, and falls to the floor, groaning.

Prince Charming beams, and laughs. He turns to the audience.

PRINCE CHARMING A new era finally begins!

The audience cowers.

Shrek looks up smiling and nods at Fiona and Artie.

PRINCE CHARMING Now, all of you, bow before your king.

Shrek casually rises up behind him and clears his throat.

SHREK Ah-hem.

Charming turns around. Shrek lifts his arm revealing that he was never really stabbed.

SHREK (CONT’D) You need to work on your aim. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 113.


Charming is stunned.

PRINCE CHARMING This was supposed to be my happily ever after.

Prince Charming is paralyzed. Shrek drops the sword and grabs him by the shirt-front, lifting him off of his feet.

He winces, but is still defiant.

SHREK Well I guess you need to keep looking…

Shrek looks at Fiona and at his friends and smiles.

SHREK …cause I’m not giving up mine.

Shrek sets Prince Charming down and signals DRAGON. She casually tips the tower over with her tail. A shadow falls over Prince Charming. He turns and sees the tower falling toward him, his body perfectly framed up in the princesses’s window.

PRINCE CHARMING Mommy?

It crashes down and he’s trapped inside.

As the dust clears, the crown rolls across the stage. Artie stops it with his foot and slowly picks it up.

SHREK It’s yours if you want it, you know, but this time it’s your choice.

Artie considers it.

He looks at Shrek, who is smiling proudly at him.

Artie turns to the audience and holds out the crown to them. They cheer him.

Artie places the crown on his head. The crowd goes nuts. In the audience, Raul sobs with joy.

ALL Ar-tie. Ar-tie. Ar-tie. Ar-tie. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 114.


Everybody cheers as the Fairy-tale Creatures and Villains put Artie up on their shoulders and carry him off. Donkey and Puss, still in each other’s bodies, watch as Artie gets carried away.

In a puff of smoke, Merlin suddenly appears. He looks around confused, clutching his show ticket.

MERLIN Uh, excuse me, that’s my seat.

Suddenly he is thrown back against the front of the stage as Donkey and Puss confront him.

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Okay, senor hocus-y pocus-y. The time has come to rectify some wrongs.

DONKEY (in Puss’ body) Although I have been enjoying these "cat baths."

PUSS (in Donkey’s body) Please say you didn’t.

MERLIN Uh… alright, alright…look..

Merlin rubs his hands together.

MERLIN You’re gonna feel a little pinch, and possibly some lower intestinal discomfort, but this should do the trick.

Merlin rolls up his sleeves, and prepares to make with the magic. He lets loose with a bright burst of magic. It takes a moment for Donkey and Puss to recover. They eye each other cautiously.

PUSS Are you..?

Donkey lifts his hoof and inspects it carefully.

DONKEY I’m me again. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 115.


Puss checks out his own paws.

PUSS And I am not you.

Donkey and Puss give each other a big hug.

DONKEY Alright.

The two of them turn and walk away together.

Merlin is behind them, smoking fingers and all. Suddenly his eyes grow wide.

MERLIN Oops. Ah, never mind.

We see that Donkey still has Puss’ tail and Puss had Donkey’s. Merlin slips away.

Shrek and Fiona watch Artie in the distance.

SHREK What’d I tell ya? I think the kid’s going to be a great King.

FIONA Well, for what it’s worth, you would have too.

Shrek smiles, and touches Fiona’s belly.

SHREK I have something much more important in mind.

They kiss.

The camera pulls back to see everyone celebrating around Shrek and Fiona as they kiss.

DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - MORNING

A wide-shot of a sunny morning in the swamp. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 116.



INT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Shrek grabs a "gourd" bottle and creates an ogre shake out of slug juice, eye balls and worms. He walk over to join Fiona by the fire.

SHREK Ah, finally.

Shrek gives Fiona the "gourd" bottle and she places a nipple on it. Two ogre babies crawl up onto Fiona’s lap.

OGRE BABIES Da da.

A third ogre baby appears at Shrek’s feet. He bends down to pick him up.

One big happy family of five. Shrek laughs and gives the babies and Fiona a hug.

The front door opens up to reveal Puss and Donkey.

DONKEY Hey. I smell Shrek Jr.

The Dronkeys come swarming in behind Donkey. Dragon peers in through the door.

Shrek with a safety pin in his mouth is doing his best at changing diapers. He twists the diaper around and the baby goes flying off screen and lands in a diaper that Fiona is holding. She smiles at Shrek.

The swamp house is overrun with Dronkeys, ogre babies and dirty diapers.

Puss sits next to an ogre baby that has a pacifier in his mouth. He takes the pacifier out of his mouth, shoves it in Puss’ mouth and gives Puss a big hug. Another baby comes crawling into frame and starts to tug on Puss’ tail. A tug of war ensues.

The ogre babies are bathing in a pot of water (a la a beat from the Nightmare scene). One of the babies farts in the water as Shrek comes in and scoops them up. Shrek laughs.


Donkey is playing "peek-a-boo" with his ears. A baby ogre laughs. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 117.


DONKEY Peek-a-boo. Peek-a-boo.

A baby ogre pulls ear wax from Shrek’s ear. The baby uses the wax to draw squiggly lines on a piece of paper.

QUEEN LILLIAN Bouncy, bouncy, bouncy boy.

Queen Lillian is bouncing a baby ogre on her lap. The baby pukes and Queen Lillian smiles.

There is a knock at the door. Donkey is laying on the floor holding a bottle with all four hooves, drinking the milk.

Shrek grabs the bottle out of Donkey’s mouth.

DONKEY Hey.

Shrek opens the front door to reveal the Dwarf.

NANNY DWARF Where’s the baby?

Shrek puts a bottle into the Dwarf’s mouth and slams the door.

CUT TO:


EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - DAY

Fiona slides one of the babies down a "slip `n slide" made out of mud shot from geysers. Shrek slides down himself. The babies scramble out of the way as Shrek slides by, spraying mud everywhere.

CUT TO:


INT. SWAMP HOUSE - EVENING

Shrek and Fiona are diapering two of the babies in perfect unison. They continue diapering, Fiona holds up the third baby and Shrek holds up an unhappy, diapered Puss.

Shrek grabs a gourd bottle off of a shelf. He tosses it to Fiona. Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 118.


Fiona stands holding one baby over her shoulder. She catches the gourd thrown to her, twirls it around (a la Tom Cruise in Cocktail), lifts up her leg where another baby is perched on her foot and puts the gourd in the baby’s mouth.

Shrek is burping a baby over his shoulder. The baby burps. Fiona has a baby over her shoulder and the baby burps. A Dronkey sitting on a chair does a flame-belch and an ogre baby crawling by farts which causes a flame thrower effect into the fireplace.

Shrek and Fiona tuck all the babies into bed.

SHREK Well, what shall we do now?

CUT TO:


INT. SHREK AND FIONA’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Shrek and Fiona are sound asleep, snoring.

DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

A baby starts to cry.

SHREK (SIGHS) I got it.

The camera trucks out.

THE END
